---
# required metadata

title: Manage alerts | Microsoft Intune
description: Use the Alerts workspace in Intune to assess the overall health of devices in your organization.
keywords:
author: Nbigman
manager: angrobe
ms.date: 07/21/2016
ms.topic: article
ms.prod:
ms.service: microsoft-intune
ms.technology:
ms.assetid: 74dc4ce4-21da-4f40-a07f-3eea34561eee

# optional metadata

ROBOTS: NOINDEX,NOFOLLOW
#audience:
#ms.devlang:
ms.reviewer: pbala
ms.suite: ems
#ms.tgt_pltfrm:
#ms.custom:

---

# Manage alerts in Microsoft Intune
Use the **Alerts** workspace in the Intune admin console to assess the overall health of devices in your organization and to identify problems.

## View active alerts

See general information and summary data about active alerts.

#### To view active alerts

In the Intune admin console, follow one of these series of steps:

-  **To display general information about alerts**, including the top three alerts and the total number of active alerts, choose **System Overview**. Choose the links in these alerts to see more detailed information.

-  **To display summary data for alerts**, choose **Alerts** > **Overview**. On the **Alerts Overview** page, you can see a summary of alerts in the **Alert Type Summary** area. Critical alerts are listed first. Choose the links in these alerts to see more detailed information.

        > [!NOTE]
        > In some cases, an alert type might appear more than once in the **Alerts Type Summary** list.
        >
        > For example, two instances of the Logical Free Disk Space alert type might be listed:
        >
        > -   3 Logical Free Disk Space
        > -   2 Logical Free Disk Space
        >
        > This occurs when the same alert type is generated for different devices that run different operating systems. In the example, the 3 Logical Free Disk Space alert type might have been generated by a computer that runs Windows 7. The 2 Logical Free Disk Space alert type might have been generated by a computer that runs Windows Vista.

-   **To display all active alerts**, choose **Alerts** > **All Alerts**. On the **Alerts** page, you can see a list of all active alerts. The page has these columns:

    -   **Name**. This is the name of the alert type that generated the alert.

    -   **Source**. This column has a link to the source of the alert. If the display threshold of the alert type is set to **Display All**, this link shows a single device. If the display threshold of the alert type is set to a value, the link shows a list of each device that's affected by this alert.

    -   **Last Updated**. This indicates the time when the alert was last modified. If an alert is closed, the time when the alert was closed is shown.

    -   **Severity**. This column indicates the severity of the alert.

## View notice board alerts
Notice board alerts provide important service announcements. They might provide information about an upcoming service upgrade or maintenance schedule or the status of an outage.

#### To view and manage notice board alerts

1.  In the Intune admin console, choose **System Overview**.

2.  If there are important service announcements, they are shown in the **Notice Board** area.

3.  If you want to export a notice board alert to a comma-separated value (CSV) or HTML file, in the Intune admin console, choose **Alerts** > **All Alerts** >    **Notices**. Select a notice, choose the **Export List** icon, and then follow the instructions shown.

## Review Intune system status
In the **System Overview** workspace, you can view **System Status** summaries for the Endpoint Protection, Updates, Agent Health, Policy, and Software categories to help you identify and prioritize issues that need immediate attention. Error messages that are generated when the system is interrupted link to the **Service Status** summary. The **Service Status** summary shows details about the problem at each location and the last time the status summary was updated.

#### To view the status of your subscription

1.  In the Intune admin console, choose **System Overview**.

2.  Explore the **System Status** area for the status of the different Microsoft Intune components.

  Many of the items are linked so that you can see more information. For example, under **Endpoint Protection**, if you choose the number of instances, you can see the **Endpoint Protection** workspace, with a list of malware that was detected. If you choose the number of devices, you can see the **Groups** workspace, with a list of devices on which malware was found.

## Close and reactivate alerts
Intune alerts stay active until one of these events occurs:

-   The issue that caused the alert to be generated is fixed.

-   The alert is manually closed.

-   Five days pass after the alert was generated. After 45 days, the alert expires and is automatically closed.

Alerts that are marked as closed are permanently deleted after 90 days.

#### To manually close an alert

In the Intune admin console, follow one of these series of steps:

- **To close an alert from the Alerts list**, choose **Alerts** > **All Alerts**. Select an alert, and then choose **Close Alert**.

- **To close an alert for a specific device**, choose **Groups** > **All Devices**. Select a device, and then choose **View Properties**. Then, on the **Alerts** tab, select an alert, and then choose **Close Alert**.

- **To close a notice board alert**, choose **System Overview**. Choose the **X** next to the notice board alert.

#### To view and reactivate closed alerts

1.  In the Intune admin console, choose **Alerts** > **All Alerts**.

2.  In the **Filters** list, choose **Closed**.

    You can see the names and additional information about the alerts in the management list pane. See details about the selected alert in the preview pane.

3.  To reactivate the selected alert, choose **Reactivate Alert**.

### See also
[Get notified by Microsoft Intune alerts](../deploy-use/get-notified-by-alerts.md)
