---
ms.date: 09/13/2016
ms.topic: reference
title: Windows PowerShell Formatting Files
description: Windows PowerShell Formatting Files
---
# Windows PowerShell Formatting Files

Windows PowerShell provides several formatting files (.format.ps1xml) that are located in the installation directory (`$pshome`). Each of these files defines the default display for a specific set of .NET objects. These files should never be changed. However, you can use them as a reference for creating your own custom formatting files.

`Certificate.Format.ps1xml`
Defines the display of objects in the Certificate store such as x.509 certificates and certificate stores.

`DotNetTypes.Format.ps1xml`
Defines the display of miscellaneous .NET objects such as CultureInfo, FileVersionInfo, and EventLogEntry objects.

`FileSystem.Format.ps1xml`
Defines the display of file system objects such as file and directory objects.

`Help.Format.ps1xml`
Defines the different views used by the [Get-Help](/powershell/module/Microsoft.PowerShell.Core/Get-Help) cmdlet, such as the detailed, full, parameters, and example views.

`PowerShellCore.Format.ps1xml`
Defines the display of the objects generated by Windows PowerShell core cmdlets, such as the objects returned by the [Get-Member](/powershell/module/Microsoft.PowerShell.Utility/Get-Member) and [Get-History](/powershell/module/Microsoft.PowerShell.Core/Get-History) cmdlets.

`PowerShellTrace.Format.ps1xml`
Defines the display of trace objects such as those generated by the [Trace-Command](/powershell/module/Microsoft.PowerShell.Utility/Trace-Command) cmdlet.

`Registry.Format.ps1xml`
Defines the display of registry objects such as key and entry objects.

## See Also

[Writing a Windows PowerShell Cmdlet](../cmdlet/writing-a-windows-powershell-cmdlet.md)
