---
ms.date:  2017-06-09
schema:  2.0.0
locale:  en-us
keywords:  powershell,cmdlet
online version:  http://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?LinkID=135243
external help file:  Microsoft.PowerShell.Commands.Utility.dll-Help.xml
title:  Register-EngineEvent
---

# Register-EngineEvent
## SYNOPSIS
Subscribes to events that are generated by the Windows PowerShell engine and by the New-Event cmdlet.
## SYNTAX

```
Register-EngineEvent [-SourceIdentifier] <String> [[-Action] <ScriptBlock>] [-MessageData <PSObject>]
 [-SupportEvent] [-Forward] [-MaxTriggerCount <Int32>] [<CommonParameters>]
```

## DESCRIPTION
The **Register-EngineEvent** cmdlet subscribes to events that are generated by the Windows PowerShell engine and the New-Event cmdlet.
Use the **SourceIdentifier** parameter to specify the event.

You can use this cmdlet to subscribe to the "Exiting" engine event and events generated by the **New-Event** cmdlet.
These events are automatically added to your event queue in your session without subscribing.
However, subscribing lets you forward the events, specify an action to respond to the events, and cancel the subscription.

When the subscribed event is raised, it is added to the event queue in your session.
To get events in the event queue, use the Get-Event cmdlet.

When you subscribe to a event, an event subcriber is added to your session.
To get the event subscribers in the session, use the Get-EventSubscriber cmdlet.
To cancel the subscription, use the Unregister-Event cmdlet, which deletes the event subscriber from the session.
## EXAMPLES

### Example 1
```
PS C:\> $s = New-PSSession -ComputerName Server01, Server02
PS C:\> Invoke-Command -Session $s { Register-EngineEvent -SourceIdentifier ([System.Management.Automation.PsEngineEvent]::Exiting) -Forward }
```

This command registers for a Windows PowerShell engine event on two remote computers.

The first command creates a user-managed session ("PSSession") on each of the remote computers.

The second command uses the Invoke-Command cmdlet to run the **Register-EngineEvent** command in the remote sessions.

The **Register-EngineEvent** command uses the **SourceIdentifier** parameter to identify the event.
It uses the **Forward** parameter to forward the events from the remote session to the local session.
### Example 2
```
PS C:\> $j = Register-EngineEvent -SourceIdentifier PowerShell.ProcessCreated -action { $ProcessName | Add-Content ProcessLog.txt }
PS C:\> Get-Event
PS C:\> $results = $j | Receive-Job
PS C:\> Unregister-Event PowerShell.ProcessCreated
```

This command shows how to use the Job cmdlets to manage the event job object that** Register-EngineEvent** returns when you use the **Action** parameter.

An event job is managed just like any other Windows PowerShell job.
For more information, see [about_Jobs](../Microsoft.PowerShell.Core/About/about_Jobs.md).
In this example, the Receive-Job cmdlet is used to get the results of the job.

To delete the job from the session, use Remove-Job.
To cancel your event subscription, use the Unregister-Event cmdlet.
To delete the events in the event queue, use Remove-Event.
## PARAMETERS

### -Action
Specifies commands to handle the events.
The commands in the **Action** run when an event is raised, instead of sending the event to the event queue.
Enclose the commands in braces ( { } ) to create a script block.

The value of the **Action** parameter can include the $Event, $EventSubscriber, $Sender, $EventArgs, and $Args automatic variables, which provide information about the event to the Action script block.
For more information, see about_Automatic_Variables (http://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?LinkID=113212).

When you specify an action, **Register-EngineEvent** returns an event job object that represents that action.
You can use the Job cmdlets to manage the event job.

```yaml
Type: ScriptBlock
Parameter Sets: (All)
Aliases: 

Required: False
Position: 102
Default value: None
Accept pipeline input: False
Accept wildcard characters: False
```

### -Forward
Sends events for this subscription to the session on the local computer.
Use this parameter when you are registering for events on a remote computer or in a remote session.

```yaml
Type: SwitchParameter
Parameter Sets: (All)
Aliases: 

Required: False
Position: Named
Default value: False
Accept pipeline input: False
Accept wildcard characters: False
```

### -MessageData
Specifies additional data associated with the event.
The value of this parameter appears in the **MessageData** property of the event object.

```yaml
Type: PSObject
Parameter Sets: (All)
Aliases: 

Required: False
Position: Named
Default value: None
Accept pipeline input: False
Accept wildcard characters: False
```

### -SourceIdentifier
Specifies the source identifier of the event to which you are subscribing.
The source identifier must be unique in the current session.
This parameter is required.

The value of this parameter appears in the value of the **SourceIdentifier** property of the subscriber object and of all event objects associated with this subscription.

```yaml
Type: String
Parameter Sets: (All)
Aliases: 

Required: True
Position: 101
Default value: None
Accept pipeline input: False
Accept wildcard characters: False
```

### -SupportEvent
Hides the event subscription.
Use this parameter when the current subscription is part of a more complex event registration mechanism and it should not be discovered independently.

To view or cancel a subscription that was created with the **SupportEvent** parameter, use the **Force** parameter of the Get-EventSubscriber and Unregister-Event cmdlets.

```yaml
Type: SwitchParameter
Parameter Sets: (All)
Aliases: 

Required: False
Position: Named
Default value: False
Accept pipeline input: False
Accept wildcard characters: False
```

### -MaxTriggerCount
Specifies the maximum number of times that an event is raised before users who are registered as event subscribers are automatically unsubscribed.
The default value, zero (0), means that there is no maximum.
Users are not automatically unsubscribed, regardless of the number of times the event is raised.

```yaml
Type: Int32
Parameter Sets: (All)
Aliases: 

Required: False
Position: Named
Default value: 0
Accept pipeline input: False
Accept wildcard characters: False
```

### CommonParameters
This cmdlet supports the common parameters: -Debug, -ErrorAction, -ErrorVariable, -InformationAction, -InformationVariable, -OutVariable, -OutBuffer, -PipelineVariable, -Verbose, -WarningAction, and -WarningVariable. For more information, see about_CommonParameters (http://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?LinkID=113216).
## INPUTS

### None
You cannot pipe input to **Register-EngineEvent**.
## OUTPUTS

### None or System.Management.Automation.PSEventJob
If you use the **Action** parameter, **Register-EngineEvent** returns a **System.Management.Automation.PSEventJob** object.
Otherwise, it does not generate any output.
## NOTES
* Events, event subscriptions, and the event queue exist only in the current session. If you close the current session, the event queue is discarded and the event subscription is canceled.

*
## RELATED LINKS

[Get-Event](Get-Event.md)

[Get-Job](../Microsoft.PowerShell.Core/Get-Job.md)

[New-Event](New-Event.md)

[Receive-Job](../Microsoft.PowerShell.Core/Receive-Job.md)

[Register-ObjectEvent](Register-ObjectEvent.md)

[Register-WmiEvent](../microsoft.powershell.management/register-wmievent.md)

[Remove-Event](Remove-Event.md)

[Remove-Job](../Microsoft.PowerShell.Core/Remove-Job.md)

[Unregister-Event](Unregister-Event.md)

[Wait-Event](Wait-Event.md)

[Wait-Job](../Microsoft.PowerShell.Core/Wait-Job.md)

