---
external help file: Microsoft.PowerShell.Commands.Management.dll-Help.xml
Locale: en-US
Module Name: Microsoft.PowerShell.Management
ms.date: 12/11/2019
online version: https://docs.microsoft.com/powershell/module/microsoft.powershell.management/stop-computer?view=powershell-7.2&WT.mc_id=ps-gethelp
schema: 2.0.0
title: Stop-Computer
---

# Stop-Computer

## SYNOPSIS
Stops (shuts down) local and remote computers.

## SYNTAX

### All

```
Stop-Computer [-WsmanAuthentication <String>] [[-ComputerName] <String[]>]
 [[-Credential] <PSCredential>] [-Force] [-WhatIf] [-Confirm] [<CommonParameters>]
```

## DESCRIPTION

The `Stop-Computer` cmdlet shuts down the local computer and remote computers.

You can use the parameters of `Stop-Computer` to specify the authentication levels and alternate
credentials, and to force an immediate shut down.

In PowerShell 7.1, `Stop-Computer` was added for Linux and macOS. The parameters have no effect on
these platforms. The cmdlet is just calling the native command `/sbin/shutdown`.

## EXAMPLES

### Example 1: Shut down the local computer

This example shuts down the local computer.

```powershell
Stop-Computer -ComputerName localhost
```

### Example 2: Shut down two remote computers and the local computer

This example stops two remote computers and the local computer.

```powershell
Stop-Computer -ComputerName "Server01", "Server02", "localhost"
```

`Stop-Computer` uses the **ComputerName** parameter to specify two remote computers and the local
computer. Each computer is shut down.

### Example 3: Shut down remote computers as a background job

In this example, `Stop-Computer` runs as a background job on two remote computers.

The background operator `&` runs the `Stop-Computer` command as a background job. For more
information, see
[about_Operators](../microsoft.powershell.core/about/about_operators.md#background-operator-).

```powershell
$j = Stop-Computer -ComputerName "Server01", "Server02" &
$results = $j | Receive-Job
$results
```

`Stop-Computer` uses the **ComputerName** parameter to specify two remote computers. The `&`
background operator runs the command as a background job. The job objects are stored in the `$j`
variable.

The job objects in the `$j` variable are sent down the pipeline to `Receive-Job`, which gets the job
results. The objects are stored in the `$results` variable. The `$results` variable displays the job
information in the PowerShell console.

### Example 4: Shut down a remote computer

This example shuts down a remote computer using specified authentication.

```powershell
Stop-Computer -ComputerName "Server01" -WsmanAuthentication Kerberos
```

`Stop-Computer` uses the **ComputerName** parameter to specify the remote computer. The
**WsmanAuthentication** parameter specifies to use Kerberos to establish a remote connection.

### Example 5: Shut down computers in a domain

In this example, the commands force an immediate shut down of all computers in a specified domain.

```powershell
$s = Get-Content -Path ./Domain01.txt
$c = Get-Credential -Credential Domain01\Admin01
Stop-Computer -ComputerName $s -Force -Credential $c
```

`Get-Content` uses the **Path** parameter to get a file in the current directory with the list of
domain computers. The objects are stored in the `$s` variable.

`Get-Credential` uses the **Credential** parameter to specify the credentials of a domain
administrator. The credentials are stored in the `$c` variable.

`Stop-Computer` shuts down the computers specified with the **ComputerName** parameter's list of
computers in the `$s` variable. The **Force** parameter forces an immediate shutdown. The
**Credential** parameter submits the credentials saved in the `$c` variable.

## PARAMETERS

### -ComputerName

Specifies the computers to stop. The default is the local computer.

Type the NETBIOS name, IP address, or fully qualified domain name of one or more computers in a
comma-separated list. To specify the local computer, type the computer name or localhost.

This parameter doesn't rely on PowerShell remoting. You can use the **ComputerName** parameter even
if your computer isn't configured to run remote commands.

```yaml
Type: System.String[]
Parameter Sets: (All)
Aliases: CN, __SERVER, Server, IPAddress

Required: False
Position: 0
Default value: None
Accept pipeline input: True (ByPropertyName)
Accept wildcard characters: False
```

### -Confirm

Prompts you for confirmation before running the cmdlet.

```yaml
Type: System.Management.Automation.SwitchParameter
Parameter Sets: (All)
Aliases: cf

Required: False
Position: Named
Default value: False
Accept pipeline input: False
Accept wildcard characters: False
```

### -Credential

Specifies a user account that has permission to do this action. The default is the current user.

Type a user name, such as **User01** or **Domain01\User01**, or enter a **PSCredential** object
generated by the `Get-Credential` cmdlet. If you type a user name, you're prompted to enter the
password.

Credentials are stored in a [PSCredential](/dotnet/api/system.management.automation.pscredential)
object and the password is stored as a [SecureString](/dotnet/api/system.security.securestring).

> [!NOTE]
> For more information about **SecureString** data protection, see
> [How secure is SecureString?](/dotnet/api/system.security.securestring#how-secure-is-securestring).

```yaml
Type: System.Management.Automation.PSCredential
Parameter Sets: (All)
Aliases:

Required: False
Position: 1
Default value: Current user
Accept pipeline input: False
Accept wildcard characters: False
```

### -Force

Forces an immediate shut down of the computer.

```yaml
Type: System.Management.Automation.SwitchParameter
Parameter Sets: (All)
Aliases:

Required: False
Position: Named
Default value: False
Accept pipeline input: False
Accept wildcard characters: False
```

### -WsmanAuthentication

Specifies the mechanism that is used to authenticate the user credentials when this cmdlet uses the
WSMan protocol. The default value is **Default**.

The acceptable values for this parameter are:

- Basic
- CredSSP
- Default
- Digest
- Kerberos
- Negotiate.

For more information about the values of this parameter, see
[AuthenticationMechanism](/dotnet/api/system.management.automation.runspaces.authenticationmechanism).

> [!CAUTION]
> Credential Security Service Provider (CredSSP) authentication, in which the user credentials are
> passed to a remote computer to be authenticated, is designed for commands that require
> authentication on more than one resource, such as accessing a remote network share. This mechanism
> increases the security risk of the remote operation. If the remote computer is compromised, the
> credentials that are passed to it can be used to control the network session.

This parameter was introduced in PowerShell 3.0.

```yaml
Type: System.String
Parameter Sets: (All)
Aliases:
Accepted values: Default, Basic, Negotiate, CredSSP, Digest, Kerberos

Required: False
Position: Named
Default value: Default
Accept pipeline input: False
Accept wildcard characters: False
```

### -WhatIf

Shows what would happen if the cmdlet runs. The cmdlet isn't run.

```yaml
Type: System.Management.Automation.SwitchParameter
Parameter Sets: (All)
Aliases: wi

Required: False
Position: Named
Default value: False
Accept pipeline input: False
Accept wildcard characters: False
```

### CommonParameters

This cmdlet supports the common parameters: -Debug, -ErrorAction, -ErrorVariable,
-InformationAction, -InformationVariable, -OutVariable, -OutBuffer, -PipelineVariable, -Verbose,
-WarningAction, and -WarningVariable. For more information, see
[about_CommonParameters](https://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?LinkID=113216).

## INPUTS

### None

You can't pipe input to this cmdlet.

## OUTPUTS

### None

## NOTES

This cmdlet uses the **Win32Shutdown** method of the **Win32_OperatingSystem** WMI class. This
method requires the **SeShutdownPrivilege** privilege be enabled for the user account used to
restart the machine.

In PowerShell 7.1, `Stop-Computer` was added for Linux and macOS. For these platorms, the cmdlet
calls the native command `/sbin/shutdown`.

## RELATED LINKS

[Rename-Computer](Rename-Computer.md)

[Restart-Computer](Restart-Computer.md)

[Test-Connection](Test-Connection.md)

