---
description:  
manager:  dongill
ms.topic:  article
author:  jpjofre
ms.prod:  powershell
keywords:  powershell,cmdlet
ms.date:  2016-07-01
title:  New ItemProperty
ms.technology:  powershell
external help file:  PSITPro4_Management.xml
online version:  http://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/p/?linkid=293887
schema:  2.0.0
---


# New-ItemProperty
## SYNOPSIS
Creates a new property for an item and sets its value.
For example, you can use New-ItemProperty to create and change registry values and data, which are properties of a registry key.

## SYNTAX

### UNNAMED_PARAMETER_SET_1
```
New-ItemProperty [-Path] <String[]> [-Name] <String> [-Credential <PSCredential>] [-Exclude <String[]>]
 [-Filter <String>] [-Force] [-Include <String[]>] [-PropertyType <String>] [-Value <Object>] [-Confirm]
 [-WhatIf] [-UseTransaction]
```

### UNNAMED_PARAMETER_SET_2
```
New-ItemProperty [-Name] <String> [-Credential <PSCredential>] [-Exclude <String[]>] [-Filter <String>]
 [-Force] [-Include <String[]>] [-PropertyType <String>] [-Value <Object>] -LiteralPath <String[]> [-Confirm]
 [-WhatIf] [-UseTransaction]
```

## DESCRIPTION
The New-ItemProperty cmdlet creates a new property for a specified item and sets its value.
Typically, this cmdlet is used to create new registry values, because registry values are properties of a registry key item.

This cmdlet does not add properties to an object.
To add a property to an instance of an object, use the Add-Member cmdlet.
To add a property to all objects of a particular type, edit the Types.ps1xml file.

## EXAMPLES

### -------------------------- EXAMPLE 1 --------------------------
```
PS C:\>new-itemproperty -path HKLM:\Software\MyCompany -name NoOfEmployees -value 822
PS C:\>get-itemproperty hklm:\software\mycompany

PSPath        : Microsoft.PowerShell.Core\Registry::HKEY_LOCAL_MACHINE\software\mycompany
PSParentPath  : Microsoft.PowerShell.Core\Registry::HKEY_LOCAL_MACHINE\software
PSChildName   : mycompany
PSDrive       : HKLM
PSProvider    : Microsoft.PowerShell.Core\Registry
NoOfLocations : 2
NoOfEmployees : 822
```

This command adds a new registry entry, NoOfEmployees, to the MyCompany key of the HKLM:\Software hive.

The first command uses the Path parameter to specify the path to the MyCompany registry key.
It uses the Name parameter to specify a name for the entry and the Value parameter to specify its value.

The second command uses the Get-ItemProperty cmdlet to see the new registry entry.

### -------------------------- EXAMPLE 2 --------------------------
```
PS C:\>get-item -path HKLM:\Software\MyCompany | new-Itemproperty -name NoOfLocations -value 3
```

This command adds a new registry entry to a registry key.
To specify the key, it uses a pipeline operator (|) to send an object representing the key to the New-ItemProperty cmdlet.

The first part of the command uses the Get-Item cmdlet to get the MyCompany registry key.
The pipeline operator (|) sends the results of the command to the New-ItemProperty cmdlet, which adds the new registry entry, NoOfLocations, and its value, 3, to the MyCompany key.

This command works because the parameter-binding feature of Windows PowerShell associates the path of the RegistryKey object that Get-Item returns with the LiteralPath parameter of New-ItemProperty.
For more information, see about_Pipelines.

## PARAMETERS

### -Credential
Specifies a user account that has permission to perform this action.
The default is the current user.

Type a user name, such as "User01" or "Domain01\User01", or enter a PSCredential object, such as one generated by the Get-Credential cmdlet.
If you type a user name, you will be prompted for a password.

This parameter is not supported by any providers installed with Windows PowerShell.

```yaml
Type: PSCredential
Parameter Sets: (All)
Aliases: 

Required: False
Position: Named
Default value: Current user
Accept pipeline input: True (ByPropertyName)
Accept wildcard characters: False
```

### -Exclude
Omits the specified items.
Wildcards are permitted.

```yaml
Type: String[]
Parameter Sets: (All)
Aliases: 

Required: False
Position: Named
Default value: 
Accept pipeline input: False
Accept wildcard characters: True
```

### -Filter
Specifies a filter in the provider's format or language.
The value of this parameter qualifies the Path parameter.

The syntax of the filter, including the use of wildcards, depends on the provider.
Filters are more efficient than other parameters, because the provider applies them when retrieving the objects rather than having Windows PowerShell filter the objects after they are retrieved.

```yaml
Type: String
Parameter Sets: (All)
Aliases: 

Required: False
Position: Named
Default value: 
Accept pipeline input: False
Accept wildcard characters: True
```

### -Force
Allows the cmdlet to create a property on an object that cannot otherwise be accessed by the user.
Implementation varies from provider to provider.
For more information, see about_Providers.

```yaml
Type: SwitchParameter
Parameter Sets: (All)
Aliases: 

Required: False
Position: Named
Default value: False
Accept pipeline input: False
Accept wildcard characters: False
```

### -Include
The value of this parameter qualifies the Path parameter.
Enter a path element or pattern, such as "*.txt".
Wildcards are permitted.

```yaml
Type: String[]
Parameter Sets: (All)
Aliases: 

Required: False
Position: Named
Default value: 
Accept pipeline input: False
Accept wildcard characters: True
```

### -LiteralPath
Specifies a path to the item property.
The value of LiteralPath is used exactly as it is typed.
No characters are interpreted as wildcards.
If the path includes escape characters, enclose it in single quotation marks.
Single quotation marks tell Windows PowerShell not to interpret any characters as escape sequences.

```yaml
Type: String[]
Parameter Sets: UNNAMED_PARAMETER_SET_2
Aliases: 

Required: True
Position: Named
Default value: 
Accept pipeline input: True (ByValue, ByPropertyName)
Accept wildcard characters: False
```

### -Name
Specifies a name for the new property.
If the property is a registry entry, this parameter specifies the name of the entry.

```yaml
Type: String
Parameter Sets: (All)
Aliases: 

Required: True
Position: 2
Default value: 
Accept pipeline input: True (ByPropertyName)
Accept wildcard characters: False
```

### -Path
Specifies the path to the item.
This parameter identifies the item to which the new property will be added.

```yaml
Type: String[]
Parameter Sets: UNNAMED_PARAMETER_SET_1
Aliases: 

Required: True
Position: 1
Default value: 
Accept pipeline input: False
Accept wildcard characters: False
```

### -PropertyType
Specifies the type of property that will be added.
Valid values include the following:

- String. Specifies a null-terminated string. Equivalent to REG_SZ.
- ExpandString. Specifies a null-terminated string that contains unexpanded references to environment variables that are expanded when the value is retrieved. Equivalent to REG_EXPAND_SZ.
- Binary. Specifies binary data in any form. Equivalent to REG_BINARY.
- DWord. Specifies a 32-bit binary number. Equivalent to REG_DWORD.
- MultiString. Specifies an array of null-terminated strings terminated by two null characters. Equivalent to REG_MULTI_SZ.
- Qword. Specifies a 64-bit binary number. Equivalent to REG_QWORD.
- Unknown. Indicates an unsupported registry data type, such as REG_RESOURCE_LIST.

```yaml
Type: String
Parameter Sets: (All)
Aliases: Type

Required: False
Position: Named
Default value: None
Accept pipeline input: True (ByPropertyName)
Accept wildcard characters: False
```

### -Value
Specifies the property value.
If the property is a registry entry, this parameter specifies the value of the entry.

```yaml
Type: Object
Parameter Sets: (All)
Aliases: 

Required: False
Position: Named
Default value: 
Accept pipeline input: True (ByPropertyName)
Accept wildcard characters: False
```

### -Confirm
Prompts you for confirmation before running the cmdlet.Prompts you for confirmation before running the cmdlet.

```yaml
Type: SwitchParameter
Parameter Sets: (All)
Aliases: 

Required: False
Position: Named
Default value: False
Accept pipeline input: False
Accept wildcard characters: False
```

### -WhatIf
Shows what would happen if the cmdlet runs.
The cmdlet is not run.Shows what would happen if the cmdlet runs.
The cmdlet is not run.

```yaml
Type: SwitchParameter
Parameter Sets: (All)
Aliases: 

Required: False
Position: Named
Default value: False
Accept pipeline input: False
Accept wildcard characters: False
```

### -UseTransaction
Includes the command in the active transaction.
This parameter is valid only when a transaction is in progress.
For more information, see Includes the command in the active transaction.
This parameter is valid only when a transaction is in progress.
For more information, see

```yaml
Type: SwitchParameter
Parameter Sets: (All)
Aliases: 

Required: False
Position: Named
Default value: False
Accept pipeline input: False
Accept wildcard characters: False
```

## INPUTS

### None
You cannot pipe input to New-ItemProperty.

## OUTPUTS

### System.Management.Automation.PSCustomObject
New-ItemProperty returns a custom object that contains the new property.

## NOTES
* The New-ItemProperty cmdlet is designed to work with the data exposed by any provider. To list the providers available in your session, type "Get-PSProvider". For more information, see about_Providers.

*

## RELATED LINKS

[Clear-ItemProperty](Clear-ItemProperty.md)

[Copy-ItemProperty](Copy-ItemProperty.md)

[Get-ItemProperty](Get-ItemProperty.md)

[Move-ItemProperty](Move-ItemProperty.md)

[Remove-ItemProperty](Remove-ItemProperty.md)

[Rename-ItemProperty](Rename-ItemProperty.md)

[Set-ItemProperty](Set-ItemProperty.md)

[about_Providers](../About/about_Providers.md)

