---
ms.date:  2017-06-09
schema:  2.0.0
locale:  en-us
keywords:  powershell,cmdlet
online version:  http://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?LinkId=821567
external help file:  Microsoft.PowerShell.Commands.Management.dll-Help.xml
title:  Clear-Content
---

# Clear-Content

## SYNOPSIS
Deletes the contents of an item, but does not delete the item.

## SYNTAX

### Path (Default)
```
Clear-Content [-Path] <String[]> [-Filter <String>] [-Include <String[]>] [-Exclude <String[]>] [-Force]
 [-Credential <PSCredential>] [-WhatIf] [-Confirm] [-UseTransaction] [-Stream <String>] [<CommonParameters>]
```

### LiteralPath
```
Clear-Content -LiteralPath <String[]> [-Filter <String>] [-Include <String[]>] [-Exclude <String[]>] [-Force]
 [-Credential <PSCredential>] [-WhatIf] [-Confirm] [-UseTransaction] [-Stream <String>] [<CommonParameters>]
```

## DESCRIPTION
The **Clear-Content** cmdlet deletes the contents of an item, such as deleting the text from a file, but it does not delete the item.
As a result, the item continues to exist, but it is empty.
**Clear-Content** is similar to `Clear-Item`, but it works on items with contents, instead of items with values.

## EXAMPLES

### Example 1: Delete all content from a text file
```powershell
Clear-Content "..\SmpUsers\*\init.txt"
```

This command deletes all of the content from the `init.txt` files in all subdirectories of the `SmpUsers` directory.
The files are not deleted, but they are empty.

### Example 2: Delete content of all files with a wildcard
```powershell
Clear-Content -Path "*" -Filter "*.log" -Force
```

This command deletes the contents of all files in the current directory with the `.log` file name extension, including files with the read-only attribute.
The asterisk (*) in the path represents all items in the current directory.
The `-Force` parameter makes the command effective on read-only files.
Using a filter to restrict the command to files with the `.log` file name extension instead of specifying `*.log` in the path makes the operation faster.

### Example 3: Clear a data scream without deleting it

```  
C:\PS>Get-Content C:\Test\Copy-Script.ps1 -Stream Zone.Identifier

[ZoneTransfer]
ZoneId=3

C:\PS>Clear-Content C:\Test\Copy-Script.ps1 -Stream Zone.Identifier

C:\PS>Get-Content C:\Test\Copy-Script.ps1 -Stream Zone.Identifier
C:\PS>
```

This example shows how **Clear-Content** clears the content from an alternate data stream while leaving the stream intact.

The first command uses the `Get-Content` cmdlet to get the content of the `Zone.Identifier` stream in the `Copy-Script.ps1` file, which was downloaded from the internet.

The second command uses the **Clear-Content** cmdlet to clear the content.

The third command repeats the first command.
It verifies that the content is cleared, but the stream remains.
If the stream were deleted, the command would generate an error.

You can use a method like this one to clear the content of an alternate data stream.
However, it is not the recommended way to eliminate security checks that block files that are downloaded from the internet.
If you verify that a downloaded file is safe, use the `Unblock-File` cmdlet.

## PARAMETERS

### -Stream
Deletes the content in the specified alternate data stream, but does not delete the alternate data stream.
Enter the stream name. Wildcards are not supported.

You can use **Clear-Content** to clear the content of an alternate data stream.
However, it is not the recommended way to eliminate security checks that block files that are downloaded from the Internet.
If you verify that a downloaded file is safe, use the `Unblock-File` cmdlet.

This parameter only works in the FileSystem provider.
This parameter is introduced in Windows PowerShell 3.0.

```yaml
Type: String
Parameter Sets: (All)
Aliases: 

Required: False
Position: Named
Default value: None
Accept pipeline input: False
Accept wildcard characters: False
```

### -Credential
Specifies a user account that has permission to perform this action.
The default is the current user.

Type a user name, such as "User01" or "Domain01\User01", or enter a **PSCredential** object, such as one generated by the Get-Credential cmdlet.
If you type a user name, you will be prompted for a password.

This parameter is not supported by any providers installed with Windows PowerShell.

```yaml
Type: PSCredential
Parameter Sets: (All)
Aliases: 

Required: False
Position: Named
Default value: None
Accept pipeline input: True (ByPropertyName)
Accept wildcard characters: False
```

### -Exclude
Specifies, as a string array, strings that this cmdlet omits from the path to the content.
The value of this parameter qualifies the `-Path` parameter.
Enter a path element or pattern, such as "*.txt".
Wildcards are permitted.

```yaml
Type: String[]
Parameter Sets: (All)
Aliases: 

Required: False
Position: Named
Default value: None
Accept pipeline input: False
Accept wildcard characters: False
```

### -Filter
Specifies a filter in the provider's format or language.
The value of this parameter qualifies the `-Path` parameter.
The syntax of the filter, including the use of wildcards, depends on the provider.
Filters are more efficient than other parameters, because the provider applies them when retrieving the objects, rather than having Windows PowerShell filter the objects after they are retrieved.

```yaml
Type: String
Parameter Sets: (All)
Aliases: 

Required: False
Position: Named
Default value: None
Accept pipeline input: False
Accept wildcard characters: False
```

### -Force
Forces the command to run without asking for user confirmation.

```yaml
Type: SwitchParameter
Parameter Sets: (All)
Aliases: 

Required: False
Position: Named
Default value: None
Accept pipeline input: False
Accept wildcard characters: False
```

### -Include
Specifies, as a string array, content that this cmdlet clears.
The value of this parameter qualifies the `-Path` parameter.
Enter a path element or pattern, such as "*.txt".
Wildcards are permitted.

```yaml
Type: String[]
Parameter Sets: (All)
Aliases: 

Required: False
Position: Named
Default value: None
Accept pipeline input: False
Accept wildcard characters: False
```

### -LiteralPath
Specifies the paths to the items from which content is deleted.
Unlike the `-Path` parameter, the value of `-LiteralPath` is used exactly as it is typed.
No characters are interpreted as wildcards.
If the path includes escape characters, enclose it in single quotation marks.
Single quotation marks tell having Windows PowerShell not to interpret any characters as escape sequences.

```yaml
Type: String[]
Parameter Sets: LiteralPath
Aliases: PSPath

Required: True
Position: Named
Default value: None
Accept pipeline input: True (ByPropertyName)
Accept wildcard characters: False
```

### -Path
Specifies the paths to the items from which content is deleted.
Wildcards are permitted.
The paths must be paths to items, not to containers.
For example, you must specify a path to one or more files, not a path to a directory.
Wildcards are permitted.
This parameter is required, but the parameter name ("Path") is optional.

```yaml
Type: String[]
Parameter Sets: Path
Aliases: 

Required: True
Position: 1
Default value: None
Accept pipeline input: True (ByPropertyName)
Accept wildcard characters: False
```

### -Confirm
Prompts you for confirmation before running the cmdlet.

```yaml
Type: SwitchParameter
Parameter Sets: (All)
Aliases: cf

Required: False
Position: Named
Default value: False
Accept pipeline input: False
Accept wildcard characters: False
```

### -WhatIf
Shows what would happen if the cmdlet runs.
The cmdlet is not run.

```yaml
Type: SwitchParameter
Parameter Sets: (All)
Aliases: wi

Required: False
Position: Named
Default value: False
Accept pipeline input: False
Accept wildcard characters: False
```

### -UseTransaction
Includes the command in the active transaction.
This parameter is valid only when a transaction is in progress.
For more information, see about_Transactions.

```yaml
Type: SwitchParameter
Parameter Sets: (All)
Aliases: usetx

Required: False
Position: Named
Default value: False
Accept pipeline input: False
Accept wildcard characters: False
```

### CommonParameters
This cmdlet supports the common parameters: -Debug, -ErrorAction, -ErrorVariable, -InformationAction, -InformationVariable, -OutVariable, -OutBuffer, -PipelineVariable, -Verbose, -WarningAction, and -WarningVariable. For more information, see about_CommonParameters (http://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?LinkID=113216).

## INPUTS

### None
You cannot pipe objects to **Clear-Content**.

## OUTPUTS

### None
This cmdlet does not return any objects.

## NOTES
You can also refer to **Clear-Content** by its built-in alias, "clc". For more information, see about_Aliases.

If you omit the `-Path` parameter name, the value of the `-Path` parameter must be the first parameter in the command.
For instance, `Clear-Content c:\mydir\*.txt`.
If you include the parameter name, you can list the parameters in any order.

You can use **Clear-Content** with the FileSystem provider and with other providers that manipulate content.
To clear items that are not considered to be content, such as items managed by the Certificate or Registry providers, use `Clear-Item`.

To list the providers available in your session, type `Get-PsProvider`.
For more information, see about_Providers.

## RELATED LINKS

[Add-Content](Add-Content.md)

[Get-Content](Get-Content.md)

[Get-Item](Get-Item.md)

[Set-Content](Set-Content.md)

