---
ms.date: 5/14/2019
schema:  2.0.0
locale:  en-us
keywords:  powershell,cmdlet
online version:  http://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?LinkId=821604
external help file:  Microsoft.PowerShell.Commands.Management.dll-Help.xml
title:  New-Item
---
# New-Item

## SYNOPSIS
Creates a new item.

## SYNTAX

### pathSet (Default)

```
New-Item [-Path] <String[]> [-ItemType <String>] [-Value <Object>] [-Force] [-Credential <PSCredential>]
 [-WhatIf] [-Confirm] [<CommonParameters>]
```

### nameSet

```
New-Item [[-Path] <String[]>] -Name <String> [-ItemType <String>] [-Value <Object>] [-Force]
 [-Credential <PSCredential>] [-WhatIf] [-Confirm] [<CommonParameters>]
```

## DESCRIPTION

The `New-Item` cmdlet creates a new item and sets its value.
The types of items that can be created depend on the location of the item.
For example, in the file system, `New-Item` creates files and folders.
In the registry, `New-Item` creates registry keys and entries.

`New-Item` can also set the value of the items that it creates.
For example, when it creates a new file, `New-Item` can add initial content to the file.

## EXAMPLES

### Example 1: Create a file in the current directory

This command creates a text file that is named "testfile1.txt" in the current directory.
The dot ('.') in the value of the **Path** parameter indicates the current directory.
The quoted text that follows the **Value** parameter is added to the file as content.

```powershell
New-Item -Path . -Name "testfile1.txt" -ItemType "file" -Value "This is a text string."
```

### Example 2: Create a directory

This command creates a directory named "Logfiles" in the `C:` drive.
The **ItemType** parameter specifies that the new item is a directory, not a file or other file
system object.

```powershell
New-Item -Path "c:\" -Name "logfiles" -ItemType "directory"
```

### Example 3: Create a profile

This command creates a PowerShell profile in the path that is specified by the `$profile` variable.

You can use profiles to customize PowerShell.
`$profile` is an automatic (built-in) variable that stores the path and file name of the
"CurrentUser/CurrentHost" profile.
By default, the profile does not exist, even though PowerShell stores a path and file name for it.

In this command, the `$profile` variable represents the path of the file.
**ItemType** parameter specifies that the command creates a file.
The **Force** parameter lets you create a file in the profile path, even when the directories in the
path do not exist.

After you use this command to create a profile, you can enter aliases, functions, and scripts in the
profile to customize your shell.

For more information, see [about_Automatic_Variables](../Microsoft.PowerShell.Core/About/about_Automatic_Variables.md)
and [about_Profiles](../Microsoft.PowerShell.Core/About/about_Profiles.md).

```powershell
New-Item -Path $profile -ItemType "file" -Force
```

### Example 4: Create a directory in a different directory

This command creates a new Scripts directory in the "C:\PS-Test" directory.

The name of the new directory item, "Scripts", is included in the value of **Path** parameter,
instead of being specified in the value of **Name**. As indicated by the syntax, either command form
is valid.

```powershell
New-Item -ItemType "directory" -Path "c:\ps-test\scripts"
```

### Example 5: Create multiple files

This command creates files in two different directories.
Because **Path** takes multiple strings, you can use it to create multiple items.

```powershell
New-Item -ItemType "file" -Path "c:\ps-test\test.txt", "c:\ps-test\Logs\test.log"
```

### Example 6: Use wildcards to create files in multiple directories

The `New-Item` cmdlet supports wildcards in the **Path** parameter. The following command creates
a `temp.txt` file in all of the directories specified by the wildcards in the **Path** parameter.

```powershell
Get-ChildItem -Path C:\Temp\
```

```Output
    Directory:  C:\Temp

Mode                LastWriteTime     Length Name
----                -------------     ------ ----
d-----        5/15/2019   6:45 AM        1   One
d-----        5/15/2019   6:45 AM        1   Two
d-----        5/15/2019   6:45 AM        1   Three
```

```powershell
New-Item -Path * -Name temp.txt -ItemType File | Select-Object FullName
```

```Output
FullName
--------
C:\Temp\One\temp.txt
C:\Temp\Three\temp.txt
C:\Temp\Two\temp.txt
```

The `Get-ChildItem` cmdlet shows three directories under the `C:\Temp` directory. Using wildcards
the `New-Item` cmdlet creates a `temp.txt` file in all of the directories under the current
directory. The `New-Item` cmdlet outputs the items you created, which is piped to `Select-Object`
to verify the paths of the newly created files.

## PARAMETERS

### -Credential

Specifies a user account that has permission to perform this action.
The default is the current user.

Type a user name, such as "User01" or "Domain01\User01", or enter a **PSCredential** object, such as
one generated by the `Get-Credential` cmdlet. If you type a user name, you are prompted for a
password.

```yaml
Type: PSCredential
Parameter Sets: (All)
Aliases:

Required: False
Position: Named
Default value: Current user
Accept pipeline input: True (ByPropertyName)
Accept wildcard characters: False
```

### -Force

Forces this cmdlet to create an item that writes over an existing read-only item. Implementation
varies from provider to provider. For more information, see [about_Providers](../Microsoft.PowerShell.Core/About/about_Providers.md).
Even using the **Force** parameter, the cmdlet cannot override security restrictions.

```yaml
Type: SwitchParameter
Parameter Sets: (All)
Aliases:

Required: False
Position: Named
Default value: None
Accept pipeline input: False
Accept wildcard characters: False
```

### -ItemType

Specifies the provider-specified type of the new item. The available values of this parameter depend
on the current provider you are using.

If your location is in a `FileSystem` drive, the following values are allowed:

- File
- Directory
- SymbolicLink
- Junction
- HardLink

> [!NOTE]
> Creating a `SymbolicLink` type on Windows requires elevation as administrator. However, Windows 10
> (build 14972 or newer) with Developer Mode enabled no longer requires elevation creating symbolic
> links.

In a `Certificate` drive, these are the values you can specify:

- Certificate Provider
- Certificate
- Store
- StoreLocation

For more information see [about_Providers](../Microsoft.PowerShell.Core/About/about_Providers.md).

```yaml
Type: String
Parameter Sets: (All)
Aliases: Type

Required: False
Position: Named
Default value: None
Accept pipeline input: True (ByPropertyName)
Accept wildcard characters: False
```

### -Name

Specifies the name of the new item.

You can specify the name of the new item in the **Name** or **Path** parameter value, and you can
specify the path of the new item in **Name** or **Path** value.

```yaml
Type: String
Parameter Sets: nameSet
Aliases:

Required: True
Position: Named
Default value: None
Accept pipeline input: True (ByPropertyName)
Accept wildcard characters: False
```

### -Path

Specifies the path of the location of the new item.
Wildcard characters are permitted.
You can specify the name of the new item in **Name**, or include it in **Path**.

```yaml
Type: String[]
Parameter Sets: pathSet
Aliases:

Required: True (pathSet), False (nameSet)
Position: 0
Default value: None
Accept pipeline input: True (ByPropertyName)
Accept wildcard characters: False
```

### -Value

Specifies the value of the new item. You can also pipe a value to `New-Item`.

```yaml
Type: Object
Parameter Sets: (All)
Aliases: Target

Required: False
Position: Named
Default value: None
Accept pipeline input: True (ByPropertyName, ByValue)
Accept wildcard characters: False
```

### -Confirm

Prompts you for confirmation before running the cmdlet.

```yaml
Type: SwitchParameter
Parameter Sets: (All)
Aliases: cf

Required: False
Position: Named
Default value: False
Accept pipeline input: False
Accept wildcard characters: False
```

### -WhatIf

Shows what would happen if the cmdlet runs.
The cmdlet is not run.

```yaml
Type: SwitchParameter
Parameter Sets: (All)
Aliases: wi

Required: False
Position: Named
Default value: False
Accept pipeline input: False
Accept wildcard characters: False
```

### CommonParameters

This cmdlet supports the common parameters: `-Debug`, `-ErrorAction`, `-ErrorVariable`,
`-InformationAction`, `-InformationVariable`, `-OutVariable`, `-OutBuffer`, `-PipelineVariable`,
`-Verbose`, `-WarningAction`, and `-WarningVariable`. For more information, see
[about_CommonParameters](../Microsoft.PowerShell.Core/About/about_CommonParameters.md).

## INPUTS

### System.Object

You can pipe a value for the new item to this cmdlet.

## OUTPUTS

### System.Object

This cmdlet returns the item that it creates.

## NOTES

`New-Item` is designed to work with the data exposed by any provider. To list the providers
available in your session, type `Get-PsProvider`. For more information, see [about_Providers](../Microsoft.PowerShell.Core/About/about_Providers.md).

## RELATED LINKS

[Clear-Item](Clear-Item.md)

[Copy-Item](Copy-Item.md)

[Get-Item](Get-Item.md)

[Invoke-Item](Invoke-Item.md)

[Move-Item](Move-Item.md)

[Remove-Item](Remove-Item.md)

[Rename-Item](Rename-Item.md)

[Set-Item](Set-Item.md)

[about_Providers](../Microsoft.PowerShell.Core/About/about_Providers.md)
