---
external help file: PSITPro3_Management.xml
schema: 2.0.0
---

# Remove-ItemProperty
## SYNOPSIS
Deletes the property and its value from an item.

## SYNTAX

### UNNAMED_PARAMETER_SET_1
```
Remove-ItemProperty [-Path] <String[]> [-Name] <String[]> [-Credential <PSCredential>] [-Exclude <String[]>]
 [-Filter <String>] [-Force] [-Include <String[]>] [-Confirm] [-WhatIf] [-UseTransaction]
```

### UNNAMED_PARAMETER_SET_2
```
Remove-ItemProperty [-Name] <String[]> [-Credential <PSCredential>] [-Exclude <String[]>] [-Filter <String>]
 [-Force] [-Include <String[]>] -LiteralPath <String[]> [-Confirm] [-WhatIf] [-UseTransaction]
```

## DESCRIPTION
The Remove-ItemProperty cmdlet deletes a property and its value from an item.
You can use it to delete registry values and the data that they store.

## EXAMPLES

### -------------------------- EXAMPLE 1 --------------------------
```
PS C:\>remove-itemproperty -path HKLM:\Software\SmpApplication -name SmpProperty
```

This command deletes the SmpProperty registry value, and its data, from the SmpApplication subkey of the HKEY_LOCAL_MACHINE\Software registry key.

Because the command is issued from a file system drive \(PS C:\\\>\), it includes the fully qualified path to the SmpApplication subkey, including the drive, HKLM:, and the Software key.

It uses the Name parameter to identify the registry value that is being deleted.

### -------------------------- EXAMPLE 2 --------------------------
```
PS C:\>set-location HKCU:\Software\MyCompany\MyApp
PS HKCU:\Software\MyCompany\MyApp> remove-itemproperty -path . -Name Options -confirm
```

These commands delete the Options registry value, and its data, from the MyApp subkey of HKEY_CURRENT_USER\Software\MyCompany.

The first command uses the Set-Location cmdlet to change the current location to the HKEY_CURRENT_USER drive \(HKCU:\) and the Software\MyCompany\MyApp subkey.

The second command uses the Remove-Item cmdlet to remove the Options registry value, and its data, from the MyApp subkey.
Because the Path parameter is required, the command uses a dot \(.\) to indicate the current location.
It uses the Name parameter to specify which registry value to delete.
It uses the Confirm parameter to request a user prompt before deleting the value.

### -------------------------- EXAMPLE 3 --------------------------
```
PS C:\>get-item -path HKLM:\Software\MyCompany | remove-itemproperty -name NoOfEmployees
```

This command deletes the NoOfEmployees registry value, and its data, from the HKLM\Software\MyCompany registry key.

The command uses the Get-Item cmdlet to get an item that represents the registry key.
It uses a pipeline operator \(|\) to send the object to the Remove-ItemProperty cmdlet.
Then, it uses the Name parameter of Remove-ItemProperty to specify the name of the registry value.

## PARAMETERS

### -Credential
Specifies a user account that has permission to perform this action.
The default is the current user.

Type a user name, such as "User01" or "Domain01\User01", or enter a PSCredential object, such as one generated by the Get-Credential cmdlet.
If you type a user name, you will be prompted for a password.

This parameter is not supported by any providers installed with Windows PowerShell.

```yaml
Type: PSCredential
Parameter Sets: (All)
Aliases: 

Required: False
Position: Named
Default value: Current user
Accept pipeline input: true (ByPropertyName)
Accept wildcard characters: False
```

### -Exclude
Omits the specified items.
The value of this parameter qualifies the Path parameter.
Enter a path element or pattern, such as "*.txt".
Wildcards are permitted.

```yaml
Type: String[]
Parameter Sets: (All)
Aliases: 

Required: False
Position: Named
Default value: 
Accept pipeline input: false
Accept wildcard characters: True
```

### -Filter
Specifies a filter in the provider's format or language.
The value of this parameter qualifies the Path parameter.
The syntax of the filter, including the use of wildcards, depends on the provider.
Filters are more efficient than other parameters, because the provider applies them when retrieving the objects rather than having Windows PowerShell filter the objects after they are retrieved.

```yaml
Type: String
Parameter Sets: (All)
Aliases: 

Required: False
Position: Named
Default value: 
Accept pipeline input: false
Accept wildcard characters: True
```

### -Force
Allows the cmdlet to remove a property of an object that cannot otherwise be accessed by the user.
Implementation varies from provider to provider.
For more information, see about_Providers.

```yaml
Type: SwitchParameter
Parameter Sets: (All)
Aliases: 

Required: False
Position: Named
Default value: False
Accept pipeline input: false
Accept wildcard characters: False
```

### -Include
Deletes only the specified items.
The value of this parameter qualifies the Path parameter.
Enter a path element or pattern, such as "*.txt".
Wildcards are permitted.

```yaml
Type: String[]
Parameter Sets: (All)
Aliases: 

Required: False
Position: Named
Default value: 
Accept pipeline input: false
Accept wildcard characters: True
```

### -LiteralPath
Specifies a path to the item property.
The value of LiteralPath is used exactly as it is typed.
No characters are interpreted as wildcards.
If the path includes escape characters, enclose it in single quotation marks.
Single quotation marks tell Windows PowerShell not to interpret any characters as escape sequences.

```yaml
Type: String[]
Parameter Sets: UNNAMED_PARAMETER_SET_2
Aliases: 

Required: True
Position: Named
Default value: 
Accept pipeline input: true (ByValue, ByPropertyName)
Accept wildcard characters: False
```

### -Name
Specifies the names of the properties to be retrieved.

```yaml
Type: String[]
Parameter Sets: (All)
Aliases: 

Required: True
Position: 2
Default value: 
Accept pipeline input: true (ByPropertyName)
Accept wildcard characters: False
```

### -Path
Specifies the path to the item whose properties are being removed.
Wildcards are permitted.

```yaml
Type: String[]
Parameter Sets: UNNAMED_PARAMETER_SET_1
Aliases: 

Required: True
Position: 1
Default value: 
Accept pipeline input: true (ByValue, ByPropertyName)
Accept wildcard characters: True
```

### -Confirm
Prompts you for confirmation before running the cmdlet.Prompts you for confirmation before running the cmdlet.

```yaml
Type: SwitchParameter
Parameter Sets: (All)
Aliases: 

Required: False
Position: Named
Default value: false
Accept pipeline input: false
Accept wildcard characters: False
```

### -WhatIf
Shows what would happen if the cmdlet runs.
The cmdlet is not run.Shows what would happen if the cmdlet runs.
The cmdlet is not run.

```yaml
Type: SwitchParameter
Parameter Sets: (All)
Aliases: 

Required: False
Position: Named
Default value: false
Accept pipeline input: false
Accept wildcard characters: False
```

### -UseTransaction
Includes the command in the active transaction.
This parameter is valid only when a transaction is in progress.
For more information, see Includes the command in the active transaction.
This parameter is valid only when a transaction is in progress.
For more information, see

```yaml
Type: SwitchParameter
Parameter Sets: (All)
Aliases: 

Required: False
Position: Named
Default value: false
Accept pipeline input: false
Accept wildcard characters: False
```

## INPUTS

### System.String
You can pipe a string that contains a path \(but not a literal path\) to Remove-ItemProperty.

## OUTPUTS

### None
This cmdlet does not return any output.

## NOTES
You can also refer to Remove-ItemProperty by its built-in alias, "rp".
For more information, see about_Alias.

In the Windows PowerShell Registry provider, registry values are considered to be properties of a registry key or subkey.
You can use the ItemProperty cmdlets to manage these values.

The Remove-ItemProperty cmdlet is designed to work with the data exposed by any provider.
To list the providers available in your session, type "Get-PSProvider".
For more information, see about_Providers.

## RELATED LINKS

[Online Version:](http://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?LinkID=113374)

[Clear-ItemProperty](f49c0340-d5cd-4099-8494-24b961ab4f7e)

[Copy-ItemProperty](c5baceb8-7348-412c-9593-e7f36a5380ad)

[Get-ItemProperty](d9774a6a-780f-4b5f-946b-02a54f9def80)

[Move-ItemProperty](0f2182c7-a28b-4b81-91fb-82022b3c14a8)

[New-ItemProperty](774ad4a6-deea-4c34-afb6-7274e18552e5)

[Remove-Item](0fe3ff11-a1f7-43b9-8c85-f92d52641395)

[Rename-ItemProperty](07be82e9-597b-4a41-b9b8-1b192c5f0322)

[Set-ItemProperty](c51196c2-f42a-4f92-8bee-d79336a7edc7)

[00000000-0000-0000-0000-000000000000](00000000-0000-0000-0000-000000000000)

[about_Providers](55e2974f-3314-48d2-8b1b-abdea6b303cb)


