---
external help file: PSITPro5_Management.xml
online version: http://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/p/?linkid=290495
schema: 2.0.0
---

# Get-Item
## SYNOPSIS
Gets the item at the specified location.

## SYNTAX

### UNNAMED_PARAMETER_SET_1
```
Get-Item [-Path] <String[]> [-Credential <PSCredential>] [-Exclude <String[]>] [-Filter <String>] [-Force]
 [-Include <String[]>] [-Stream <System.String[]>] [-UseTransaction]
```

### UNNAMED_PARAMETER_SET_2
```
Get-Item [-Credential <PSCredential>] [-Exclude <String[]>] [-Filter <String>] [-Force] [-Include <String[]>]
 [-Stream <System.String[]>] -LiteralPath <String[]> [-UseTransaction]
```

## DESCRIPTION
The Get-Item cmdlet gets the item at the specified location.
It does not get the contents of the item at the location unless you use a wildcard character (*) to request all the contents of the item.

This cmdlet is used by Windows PowerShell providers to navigate through different types of data stores.

## EXAMPLES

### Example 1: Get the current directory
```
PS C:\>Get-Item .





Directory: C:\ 
Mode                LastWriteTime     Length Name
----                -------------     ------ ----
d----         7/26/2006  10:01 AM            ps-test
```

This command gets the current directory.
The dot (.) represents the item at the current location (not its contents).

### Example 2: Get all the items in the current directory
```
PS C:\>Get-Item *











Directory: C:\ps-test
Mode                LastWriteTime     Length Name
----                -------------     ------ ----
d----         7/26/2006   9:29 AM            Logs
d----         7/26/2006   9:26 AM            Recs
-a---         7/26/2006   9:28 AM         80 date.csv
-a---         7/26/2006  10:01 AM         30 filenoext
-a---         7/26/2006   9:30 AM      11472 process.doc
-a---         7/14/2006  10:47 AM         30 test.txt
```

This command gets all the items in the current directory.
The wildcard character (*) represents all the contents of the current item.

### Example 3: Get the current directory of a drive
```
PS C:\>Get-Item C:\
```

This command gets the current directory of the C: drive.
The object that is retrieved represents only the directory, not its contents.

### Example 4: Get items in the specified drive
```
PS C:\>Get-Item C:\*
```

This command gets the items in the C: drive.
The wildcard character (*) represents all the items in the container, not just the container.

In Windows PowerShell, use a single asterisk (*) to get contents, instead of the traditional *.*.
The format is interpreted literally, so *.* would not retrieve directories or file names without a dot.

### Example 5: Get a property in the specified directory
```
PS C:\>(Get-Item C:\Windows).LastAccessTime
```

This command gets the LastAccessTime property of the C:\Windows directory.
LastAccessTime is just one property of file system directories.
To see all of the properties of a directory, type (Get-Item \<directory-name\>) | Get-Member.

### Example 6: Show the contents of a registry key
```
PS C:\>Get-Item hklm:\software\microsoft\powershell\1\shellids\microsoft.powershell\*
```

This command shows the contents of the Microsoft.PowerShell registry key.
You can use this cmdlet with the Windows PowerShell Registry provider to get registry keys and subkeys, but you must use the Get-ItemProperty cmdlet to get the registry values and data.

### Example 7: Get items in a directory that have an exclusion
```
PS C:\>Get-Item c:\Windows\*.* -exclude "w*"
```

This command gets items in the Windows directory with names that include a dot (.), but do not begin with w*.
This command works only when the path includes a wildcard character (*) to specify the contents of the item.

## PARAMETERS

### -Credential
Specifies a user account that has permission to perform this action.
The default is the current user.

Type a user-name, such as User01 or Domain01\User01, or enter a PSCredential object, such as one generated by the Get-Credential cmdlet.
If you type a user name, you will be prompted for a password.

This parameter is not supported by any providers installed with Windows PowerShell.

```yaml
Type: PSCredential
Parameter Sets: (All)
Aliases: 

Required: False
Position: Named
Default value: None
Accept pipeline input: True (ByPropertyName)
Accept wildcard characters: False
```

### -Exclude
Specifies, as a string array, an item or items that this cmdlet excludes in the operation.
The value of this parameter qualifies the Path parameter.
Enter a path element or pattern, such as *.txt.
Wildcards are permitted.

The Exclude parameter is effective only when the command includes the contents of an item, such as C:\Windows\*, where the wildcard character specifies the contents of the C:\Windows directory.

```yaml
Type: String[]
Parameter Sets: (All)
Aliases: 

Required: False
Position: Named
Default value: None
Accept pipeline input: False
Accept wildcard characters: False
```

### -Filter
Specifies a filter in the provider's format or language.
The value of this parameter qualifies the Path parameter.
The syntax of the filter, including the use of wildcards, depends on the provider.
Filters are more efficient than other parameters, because the provider applies them when this cmdlet gets the objects, rather than having Windows PowerShell filter the objects after they are retrieved.

```yaml
Type: String
Parameter Sets: (All)
Aliases: 

Required: False
Position: Named
Default value: None
Accept pipeline input: False
Accept wildcard characters: False
```

### -Force
Indicates that this cmdlet gets items that cannot otherwise be accessed, such as hidden items.
Implementation varies from provider to provider.
For more information, see about_Providers.
Even using the Force parameter, the cmdlet cannot override security restrictions.

```yaml
Type: SwitchParameter
Parameter Sets: (All)
Aliases: 

Required: False
Position: Named
Default value: None
Accept pipeline input: False
Accept wildcard characters: False
```

### -Include
Specifies, as a string array, an item or items that this cmdlet includes in the operation.
The value of this parameter qualifies the Path parameter.
Enter a path element or pattern, such as *.txt.
Wildcards are permitted.

The Include parameter is effective only when the command includes the contents of an item, such as C:\Windows\*, where the wildcard character specifies the contents of the C:\Windows directory.

```yaml
Type: String[]
Parameter Sets: (All)
Aliases: 

Required: False
Position: Named
Default value: None
Accept pipeline input: False
Accept wildcard characters: False
```

### -LiteralPath
Specifies a path to the item.
Unlike the Path parameter, the value of LiteralPath is used exactly as it is typed.
No characters are interpreted as wildcards.
If the path includes escape characters, enclose it in single quotation marks.
Single quotation marks tell Windows PowerShell not to interpret any characters as escape sequences.

```yaml
Type: String[]
Parameter Sets: UNNAMED_PARAMETER_SET_2
Aliases: PSPath

Required: True
Position: Named
Default value: None
Accept pipeline input: True(ByPropertyName)
Accept wildcard characters: False
```

### -Path
Specifies the path to an item.
This cmdlet gets the item at the specified location.
Wildcards are permitted.
This parameter is required, but the parameter name ("Path") is optional.

Use a dot (.) to specify the current location.
Use the wildcard character (*) to specify all the items in the current location.

```yaml
Type: String[]
Parameter Sets: UNNAMED_PARAMETER_SET_1
Aliases: 

Required: True
Position: 1
Default value: None
Accept pipeline input: True (ByValue, ByPropertyName)
Accept wildcard characters: False
```

### -Stream
This parameter is not supported by any providers installed with Windows PowerShell.

```yaml
Type: System.String[]
Parameter Sets: (All)
Aliases: 

Required: False
Position: Named
Default value: None
Accept pipeline input: False
Accept wildcard characters: False
```

### -UseTransaction
Includes the command in the active transaction.
This parameter is valid only when a transaction is in progress.
For more information, see Includes the command in the active transaction.
This parameter is valid only when a transaction is in progress.
For more information, see

```yaml
Type: SwitchParameter
Parameter Sets: (All)
Aliases: 

Required: False
Position: Named
Default value: False
Accept pipeline input: False
Accept wildcard characters: False
```

## INPUTS

### System.String
You can pipe a string that contains a path to this cmdlet.

## OUTPUTS

### System.Object
This cmdlet returns the objects that it gets.
The type is determined by the type of objects in the path.

## NOTES
* You can also refer to this cmdlet by its built-in alias, "gi". For more information, see about_Aliases.

  This cmdlet does not have a Recurse parameter, because it gets only an item, not its contents.
To get the contents of an item recursively, use Get-ChildItem.

  To navigate through the registry, use this cmdlet to get registry keys and the Get-ItemProperty to get registry values and data.
The registry values are considered to be properties of the registry key.

  This cmdlet is designed to work with the data exposed by any provider.
To list the providers available in your session, type Get-PsProvider.
For more information, see about_Providers.

*

## RELATED LINKS

[Clear-Item](e78220a3-d720-4347-bdbe-8f15f77f3aa1)

[Copy-Item](60a19812-67ab-4b58-a6f5-34640edafbb0)

[Invoke-Item](61bc0652-39d8-44fe-9ff4-476ae75c38c8)

[Move-Item](de1b4217-de99-45cd-a12c-35e87b0c8466)

[New-Item](67038d02-6598-49c6-b5bd-77b59d445abe)

[Remove-Item](0fe3ff11-a1f7-43b9-8c85-f92d52641395)

[Rename-Item](0f4879db-7cb4-4b2b-82f4-61f7b9c0dc24)

[Set-Item](704c03fc-6fdd-46d6-9da6-6d3a2196918c)

[Get-ChildItem](75cf79bb-4db6-4a67-8c36-3d20754e2190)

[Get-ItemProperty](d9774a6a-780f-4b5f-946b-02a54f9def80)

[Get-PSProvider](0ff66609-f423-43d0-aaed-b603080f2f22)

[Get-Credential](9cf2bb69-3cb4-4e97-8211-f91f81367ca3)

[about_Providers](55e2974f-3314-48d2-8b1b-abdea6b303cb)

[about_Aliases](638c1890-4425-4a3e-8432-09015672f234)

[about_Providers](2d9b3f32-be78-49ad-a547-21231c803242)

