---
external help file: PSITPro5_Management.xml
online version: http://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/p/?linkid=293897
schema: 2.0.0
---

# Remove-ItemProperty
## SYNOPSIS
Deletes the property and its value from an item.

## SYNTAX

### UNNAMED_PARAMETER_SET_1
```
Remove-ItemProperty [-Path] <String[]> [-Name] <String[]> [-Credential <PSCredential>] [-Exclude <String[]>]
 [-Filter <String>] [-Force] [-Include <String[]>] [-Confirm] [-WhatIf] [-UseTransaction]
```

### UNNAMED_PARAMETER_SET_2
```
Remove-ItemProperty [-Name] <String[]> [-Credential <PSCredential>] [-Exclude <String[]>] [-Filter <String>]
 [-Force] [-Include <String[]>] -LiteralPath <String[]> [-Confirm] [-WhatIf] [-UseTransaction]
```

## DESCRIPTION
The Remove-ItemProperty cmdlet deletes a property and its value from an item.
You can use it to delete registry values and the data that they store.

## EXAMPLES

### Example 1: Delete a registry value
```
PS C:\>Remove-ItemProperty -Path "HKLM:\Software\SmpApplication" -Name "SmpProperty"
```

This command deletes the SmpProperty registry value, and its data, from the SmpApplication subkey of the HKEY_LOCAL_MACHINE\Software registry key.

Because the command is issued from a file system drive (PS C:\\\>), it includes the fully qualified path of the SmpApplication subkey, including the drive, HKLM:, and the Software key.

It uses the Name parameter to identify the registry value that is being deleted.

### Example 2: Delete a registry value from the HKCU location
```
PS C:\>Set-Location HKCU:\Software\MyCompany\MyApp
PS HKCU:\Software\MyCompany\MyApp> Remove-ItemProperty -Path . -Name "Options" -Confirm
```

These commands delete the Options registry value, and its data, from the MyApp subkey of HKEY_CURRENT_USER\Software\MyCompany.

The first command uses the Set-Location cmdlet to change the current location to the HKEY_CURRENT_USER drive (HKCU:) and the Software\MyCompany\MyApp subkey.

The second command uses Remove-ItemProperty to remove the Options registry value, and its data, from the MyApp subkey.
Because Path is required, the command uses a dot (.) to indicate the current location.
It uses Name to specify which registry value to delete.
It uses the Confirm parameter to request a user prompt before deleting the value.

### Example 3: Remove a registry value by using the pipeline
```
PS C:\>Get-Item -Path HKLM:\Software\MyCompany | Remove-ItemProperty -Name NoOfEmployees
```

This command deletes the NoOfEmployees registry value, and its data, from the HKLM\Software\MyCompany registry key.

The command uses the Get-Item cmdlet to get an item that represents the registry key.
It uses a pipeline operator (|) to send the object to Remove-ItemProperty.
Then, it uses the Name parameter of Remove-ItemProperty to specify the name of the registry value.

## PARAMETERS

### -Credential
Specifies a user account that has permission to perform this action.
The default is the current user.

Type a user name, such as User01 or Domain01\User01, or enter a PSCredential object, such as one generated by the Get-Credential cmdlet.
If you type a user name, this cmdlet prompts you for a password.

This parameter is not supported by any providers installed with Windows PowerShell.

```yaml
Type: PSCredential
Parameter Sets: (All)
Aliases: 

Required: False
Position: Named
Default value: None
Accept pipeline input: True (ByPropertyName)
Accept wildcard characters: False
```

### -Exclude
Specifies items that this cmdlet omits.
The value of this parameter qualifies the Path parameter.
Enter a path element or pattern, such as *.txt.
Wildcard characters are permitted.

```yaml
Type: String[]
Parameter Sets: (All)
Aliases: 

Required: False
Position: Named
Default value: None
Accept pipeline input: False
Accept wildcard characters: False
```

### -Filter
Specifies a filter in the format or language of the provider.
The value of this parameter qualifies the Path parameter.
The syntax of the filter, including the use of wildcard characters, depends on the provider.
Filters are more efficient than other parameters, because the provider applies them when it retrieves the objects instead of having Windows PowerShell filter the objects after they are retrieved.

```yaml
Type: String
Parameter Sets: (All)
Aliases: 

Required: False
Position: Named
Default value: None
Accept pipeline input: False
Accept wildcard characters: False
```

### -Force
Forces the cmdlet to remove a property of an object that cannot otherwise be accessed by the user.
Implementation varies from provider to provider.
For more information, see about_Providers.

```yaml
Type: SwitchParameter
Parameter Sets: (All)
Aliases: 

Required: False
Position: Named
Default value: None
Accept pipeline input: False
Accept wildcard characters: False
```

### -Include
Specifies items to delete.
The value of this parameter qualifies the Path parameter.
Enter a path element or pattern, such as *.txt.
Wildcard characters are permitted.

```yaml
Type: String[]
Parameter Sets: (All)
Aliases: 

Required: False
Position: Named
Default value: None
Accept pipeline input: False
Accept wildcard characters: False
```

### -LiteralPath
Specifies a path of the item property.
The value of the LiteralPath parameter is used exactly as it is typed.
No characters are interpreted as wildcard characters.
If the path includes escape characters, enclose it in single quotation marks.
Single quotation marks tell Windows PowerShell not to interpret any characters as escape sequences.

```yaml
Type: String[]
Parameter Sets: UNNAMED_PARAMETER_SET_2
Aliases: PSPath

Required: True
Position: Named
Default value: None
Accept pipeline input: True(ByPropertyName)
Accept wildcard characters: False
```

### -Name
Specifies the names of the properties to remove.

```yaml
Type: String[]
Parameter Sets: (All)
Aliases: PSProperty

Required: True
Position: 2
Default value: None
Accept pipeline input: True (ByPropertyName)
Accept wildcard characters: False
```

### -Path
Specifies the path of the item whose properties are being removed.
Wildcard characters are permitted.

```yaml
Type: String[]
Parameter Sets: UNNAMED_PARAMETER_SET_1
Aliases: 

Required: True
Position: 1
Default value: None
Accept pipeline input: True (ByValue, ByPropertyName)
Accept wildcard characters: False
```

### -Confirm
Prompts you for confirmation before running the cmdlet.Prompts you for confirmation before running the cmdlet.

```yaml
Type: SwitchParameter
Parameter Sets: (All)
Aliases: 

Required: False
Position: Named
Default value: False
Accept pipeline input: False
Accept wildcard characters: False
```

### -WhatIf
Shows what would happen if the cmdlet runs.
The cmdlet is not run.Shows what would happen if the cmdlet runs.
The cmdlet is not run.

```yaml
Type: SwitchParameter
Parameter Sets: (All)
Aliases: 

Required: False
Position: Named
Default value: False
Accept pipeline input: False
Accept wildcard characters: False
```

### -UseTransaction
Includes the command in the active transaction.
This parameter is valid only when a transaction is in progress.
For more information, see Includes the command in the active transaction.
This parameter is valid only when a transaction is in progress.
For more information, see

```yaml
Type: SwitchParameter
Parameter Sets: (All)
Aliases: 

Required: False
Position: Named
Default value: False
Accept pipeline input: False
Accept wildcard characters: False
```

## INPUTS

### System.String
You can pipe a string that contains a path, but not a literal path, to this cmdlet.

## OUTPUTS

### None
This cmdlet does not return any output.

## NOTES
* You can also refer to Remove-ItemProperty by its built-in alias, rp. For more information, see about_Aliases.
* In the Windows PowerShell Registry provider, registry values are considered to be properties of a registry key or subkey. You can use the ItemProperty cmdlets to manage these values.
* Remove-ItemProperty is designed to work with the data exposed by any provider. To list the providers available in your session, type Get-PSProvider. For more information, see about_Providers.

## RELATED LINKS

[Get-Item](4ed2b1e1-fde4-4425-90a0-87774477fefa)

[Clear-ItemProperty](f49c0340-d5cd-4099-8494-24b961ab4f7e)

[Copy-ItemProperty](c5baceb8-7348-412c-9593-e7f36a5380ad)

[Get-ItemProperty](d9774a6a-780f-4b5f-946b-02a54f9def80)

[Move-ItemProperty](0f2182c7-a28b-4b81-91fb-82022b3c14a8)

[New-ItemProperty](774ad4a6-deea-4c34-afb6-7274e18552e5)

[Remove-Item](0fe3ff11-a1f7-43b9-8c85-f92d52641395)

[Rename-ItemProperty](07be82e9-597b-4a41-b9b8-1b192c5f0322)

[Set-ItemProperty](c51196c2-f42a-4f92-8bee-d79336a7edc7)

[Set-Location](d7f353cd-ebd7-462a-bd57-1498dc8b88a6)

[about_Providers](55e2974f-3314-48d2-8b1b-abdea6b303cb)

