---
ms.date:  06/09/2017
schema:  2.0.0
locale:  en-us
keywords:  powershell,cmdlet
online version:  http://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?LinkId=821620
external help file:  Microsoft.PowerShell.Commands.Management.dll-Help.xml
title:  Rename-Computer
---

# Rename-Computer

## SYNOPSIS
Renames a computer.

## SYNTAX

```
Rename-Computer [-ComputerName <String>] [-PassThru] [-DomainCredential <PSCredential>]
 [-LocalCredential <PSCredential>] [-NewName] <String> [-Force] [-Restart] [-WsmanAuthentication <String>]
 [-Protocol <String>] [-WhatIf] [-Confirm] [<CommonParameters>]
```

## DESCRIPTION
The **Rename-Computer** cmdlet renames the local computer or a remote computer.
It renames one computer in each command.

This cmdlet was introduced in Windows PowerShell 3.0.

## EXAMPLES

### Example 1: Rename the local computer
```
PS C:\> Rename-Computer -NewName "Server044" -DomainCredential Domain01\Admin01 -Restart
```

This command renames the local computer to Server044 and then restarts it to make the change effective.

### Example 2: Rename a remote computer
```
PS C:\> Rename-Computer -ComputerName "Srv01" -NewName "Server001" -LocalCredential Srv01\Admin01 -DomainCredential Domain01\Admin01 -Force -PassThru -Restart
```

This command renames the Srv01 computer to Server001 and then restarts it to make the change effective.
It uses the *LocalCredential* parameter to supply the credentials of a user who has permission to connect to the local computer and the *DomainCredential* parameter to supply the credentials of a user who has permission to rename computers in the domain.
It uses the *Force* parameter to suppress the confirmation prompt and the *PassThru* parameter to return the results of the command.

### Example 3: Rename multiple computers
```
PS C:\> $a = Import-Csv ServerNames.csv -Header OldName, NewName
PS C:\> Foreach ( $Server in $a ) {Rename-Computer -ComputerName $Server.OldName -NewName $Server.NewName -DomainCredential Domain01\Admin01 -Force -Restart}
```

This command renames multiple computers in the domain.
It uses a CSV file to specify the values for the current and new names of each computer.
The CSV file contains a series of name pairs in "OldName, NewName" format with one name pair on each line of the file.

The first command uses the Import-Csv cmdlet to import the ServerNames.csv file into the $a variable.
It uses the *Header* parameter to specify the column header names of each of the two columns.
This creates a collection of custom objects in $a, each of which has an **OldName** and **NewName** property.

The second command runs the **Rename-Computer** cmdlet on each object in the $a variable.
It specifies the old name, which is the value of the **OldName** property, for the value of the *ComputerName* parameter.
It specifiesthe new name, the value of the **NewName** property, for the value of the *NewName* parameter.
The command specifies domain credentials and uses *Force* and *Restart* to suppress all user prompts and restart each computer after it is renamed.

## PARAMETERS

### -ComputerName
Specifies the new name for the remote computer.
The default is the local computer.

Type the NetBIOS name, an IP address, or a fully qualified domain name of a remote computer.
To specify the local computer, type the computer name, a dot (.), or localhost.

This parameter does not rely on Windows PowerShell remoting.
You can use the *ComputerName* parameter of **Rename-Computer** even if your computer is not configured to run remote commands.

```yaml
Type: String
Parameter Sets: (All)
Aliases:

Required: False
Position: Named
Default value: None
Accept pipeline input: True (ByPropertyName)
Accept wildcard characters: False
```

### -Confirm
Prompts you for confirmation before running the cmdlet.

```yaml
Type: SwitchParameter
Parameter Sets: (All)
Aliases: cf

Required: False
Position: Named
Default value: False
Accept pipeline input: False
Accept wildcard characters: False
```

### -DomainCredential
Specifies a user account that has permission to connect to the domain.
Explicit credentials are required to rename a computer that is joined to a domain.

Type a user name, such as User01 or Domain01\User01, or enter a **PSCredential** object, such as one generated by the Get-Credential cmdlet.
If you type a user name, this cmdlet prompts you for a password.

To specify a user account that has permission to connect to the computer that is specified by the *ComputerName* parameter, use the *LocalCredential* parameter.

```yaml
Type: PSCredential
Parameter Sets: (All)
Aliases:

Required: False
Position: Named
Default value: None
Accept pipeline input: False
Accept wildcard characters: False
```

### -Force
Forces the command to run without asking for user confirmation.

```yaml
Type: SwitchParameter
Parameter Sets: (All)
Aliases:

Required: False
Position: Named
Default value: None
Accept pipeline input: False
Accept wildcard characters: False
```

### -LocalCredential
Specifies a user account that has permission to connect to the computer specified by the **ComputerName** parameter.
The default is the current user.

Type a user name, such as User01 or Domain01\User01, or enter a **PSCredential** object, such as one generated by the **Get-Credential** cmdlet.
If you type a user name, this cmdlet prompts you for a password.

To specify a user account that has permission to connect to the domain, use the *DomainCredential* parameter.

```yaml
Type: PSCredential
Parameter Sets: (All)
Aliases:

Required: False
Position: Named
Default value: None
Accept pipeline input: False
Accept wildcard characters: False
```

### -NewName
Specifies a new name for the computer.
This parameter is required.
The name cannot include control characters, leading or trailing spaces, or any of the following characters: / \\\\ \[ \].

```yaml
Type: String
Parameter Sets: (All)
Aliases:

Required: True
Position: 0
Default value: None
Accept pipeline input: True (ByPropertyName)
Accept wildcard characters: False
```

### -PassThru
Returns the results of the command.
Otherwise, this cmdlet does not generate any output.

```yaml
Type: SwitchParameter
Parameter Sets: (All)
Aliases:

Required: False
Position: Named
Default value: None
Accept pipeline input: False
Accept wildcard characters: False
```

### -Protocol
Specifies which protocol to use to rename the computer.
The acceptable values for this parameter are: WSMan and DCOM.
The default value is DCOM.

This parameter was introduced in Windows PowerShell 3.0.

```yaml
Type: String
Parameter Sets: (All)
Aliases:
Accepted values: DCOM, WSMan

Required: False
Position: Named
Default value: None
Accept pipeline input: False
Accept wildcard characters: False
```

### -Restart
Indicates that this cmdlet restarts the computer that was renamed.
A restart is often required to make the change effective.

```yaml
Type: SwitchParameter
Parameter Sets: (All)
Aliases:

Required: False
Position: Named
Default value: None
Accept pipeline input: False
Accept wildcard characters: False
```

### -WhatIf
Shows what would happen if the cmdlet runs.
The cmdlet is not run.

```yaml
Type: SwitchParameter
Parameter Sets: (All)
Aliases: wi

Required: False
Position: Named
Default value: False
Accept pipeline input: False
Accept wildcard characters: False
```

### -WsmanAuthentication
Specifies the mechanism that is used to authenticate the user credentials when this cmdlet uses the WSMan protocol.
The acceptable values for this parameter are:

- Basic
- CredSSP
- Default
- Digest
- Kerberos
- Negotiate

The default value is Default.

For more information about the values of this parameter, see [AuthenticationMechanism Enumeration](https://msdn.microsoft.com/library/system.management.automation.runspaces.authenticationmechanism) in the MSDN library.

Caution: Credential Security Service Provider (CredSSP) authentication, in which the user credentials are passed to a remote computer to be authenticated, is designed for commands that require authentication on more than one resource, such as accessing a remote network share.
This mechanism increases the security risk of the remote operation.
If the remote computer is compromised, the credentials that are passed to it can be used to control the network session.

This parameter was introduced in Windows PowerShell 3.0.

```yaml
Type: String
Parameter Sets: (All)
Aliases:
Accepted values: Default, Basic, Negotiate, CredSSP, Digest, Kerberos

Required: False
Position: Named
Default value: None
Accept pipeline input: False
Accept wildcard characters: False
```

### CommonParameters
This cmdlet supports the common parameters: -Debug, -ErrorAction, -ErrorVariable, -InformationAction, -InformationVariable, -OutVariable, -OutBuffer, -PipelineVariable, -Verbose, -WarningAction, and -WarningVariable. For more information, see about_CommonParameters (http://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?LinkID=113216).

## INPUTS

### None
This cmdlet does not have parameters that take input by value.
However, you can pipe the values of the **ComputerName** and **NewName** properties of objects to this cmdlet.

## OUTPUTS

### Microsoft.PowerShell.Commands.ComputerChangeInfo
This cmdlet returns a **ComputerChangeInfo** object, if you specify the *PassThru* parameter.
Otherwise, it does not return any output.

## NOTES

## RELATED LINKS

[Add-Computer](Add-Computer.md)

[Remove-Computer](Remove-Computer.md)

[Reset-ComputerMachinePassword](Reset-ComputerMachinePassword.md)

[Restart-Computer](Restart-Computer.md)

[Stop-Computer](Stop-Computer.md)