---
ms.date:  06/09/2017
schema:  2.0.0
locale:  en-us
keywords:  powershell,cmdlet
online version:  http://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?LinkId=821624
external help file:  Microsoft.PowerShell.Commands.Management.dll-Help.xml
title:  Resolve-Path
---

# Resolve-Path

## SYNOPSIS
Resolves the wildcard characters in a path, and displays the path contents.

## SYNTAX

### Path (Default)
```
Resolve-Path [-Path] <String[]> [-Relative] [-Credential <PSCredential>] [-UseTransaction] [<CommonParameters>]
```

### LiteralPath
```
Resolve-Path -LiteralPath <String[]> [-Relative] [-Credential <PSCredential>] [-UseTransaction]
 [<CommonParameters>]
```

## DESCRIPTION
The **Resolve-Path** cmdlet interprets the wildcard characters in a path and displays the items and containers at the location specified by the path, such as the files and folders or registry keys and subkeys.

## EXAMPLES

### Example 1: Resolve the current path
```
PS C:\> Resolve-Path ~
Path
----
C:\Users\User01
```

This command resolves the path represented by the tilde character (~), which represents the home path of a file system drive, such as C:.

### Example 2: Resolve the path of the Windows folder
```
PS C:\> Resolve-Path -Path "windows"
Path
----
C:\Windows
```

When run from the root of the C: drive, this command returns the path of the Windows folder in the C: drive.

### Example 3: Get all paths in the Windows folder
```
PS C:\> "C:\windows\*" | Resolve-Path
```

This command returns all of the folders in the C:\Windows folder.
The command uses a pipeline operator (|) to send a path string to **Resolve-Path**.

### Example 4: Resolve a UNC path
```
PS C:\> Resolve-Path -Path "\\Server01\public"
```

This command resolves a Universal Naming Convention (UNC) path and returns the shares in the path.

### Example 5: Get relative paths
```
PS C:\> Resolve-Path -Path "c:\prog*" -Relative
..\Program Files
..\Program Files (x86)
..\programs.txt
```

This command returns relative paths for the directories at the root of the C: drive.

### Example 6: Resolve a path that contains brackets
```
PS C:\> Resolve-Path -LiteralPath 'test[xml]'
```

This command resolves the path of the Test\[xml\] subfolder of the current folder.
It uses the *LiteralPath* parameter to indicate that the brackets are not regular expression characters.

## PARAMETERS

### -Credential
Specifies a user account that has permission to perform this action.
The default is the current user.

Type a user name, such as User01 or Domain01\User01, or enter a **PSCredential** object, such as one generated by the Get-Credential cmdlet.
If you type a user name, this cmdlet prompts you for a password.

This parameter is not supported by any providers installed with Windows PowerShell.

```yaml
Type: PSCredential
Parameter Sets: (All)
Aliases:

Required: False
Position: Named
Default value: None
Accept pipeline input: True (ByPropertyName)
Accept wildcard characters: False
```

### -LiteralPath
Specifies the path to be resolved.
The value of the *LiteralPath* parameter is used exactly as it is typed.
No characters are interpreted as wildcard characters.
If the path includes escape characters, enclose it in single quotation marks.
Single quotation marks tell Windows PowerShell not to interpret any characters as escape sequences.

```yaml
Type: String[]
Parameter Sets: LiteralPath
Aliases: PSPath

Required: True
Position: Named
Default value: None
Accept pipeline input: True (ByPropertyName)
Accept wildcard characters: False
```

### -Path
Specifies the Windows PowerShell path to resolve.
This parameter is required.
You can also pipe a path string to **Resolve-Path**.

```yaml
Type: String[]
Parameter Sets: Path
Aliases:

Required: True
Position: 0
Default value: None
Accept pipeline input: True (ByPropertyName, ByValue)
Accept wildcard characters: False
```

### -Relative
Indicates that this cmdlet returns a relative path.

```yaml
Type: SwitchParameter
Parameter Sets: (All)
Aliases:

Required: False
Position: Named
Default value: None
Accept pipeline input: False
Accept wildcard characters: False
```

### -UseTransaction
Includes the command in the active transaction.
This parameter is valid only when a transaction is in progress.
For more information, see about_Transactions.

```yaml
Type: SwitchParameter
Parameter Sets: (All)
Aliases: usetx

Required: False
Position: Named
Default value: False
Accept pipeline input: False
Accept wildcard characters: False
```

### CommonParameters
This cmdlet supports the common parameters: -Debug, -ErrorAction, -ErrorVariable, -InformationAction, -InformationVariable, -OutVariable, -OutBuffer, -PipelineVariable, -Verbose, -WarningAction, and -WarningVariable. For more information, see about_CommonParameters (http://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?LinkID=113216).

## INPUTS

### System.String
You can pipe a string that contains a path to this cmdlet.

## OUTPUTS

### System.Management.Automation.PathInfo, System.String
This cmdlet returns a string that contains the resolved path, if you specify the *Relative* parameter.
Otherwise, it returns a **PathInfo** object.

## NOTES
* The cmdlets that contain the **Path** noun (the **Path** cmdlets) work with path names and return the names in a concise format that all Windows PowerShell providers can interpret. They are designed for use in programs and scripts where you want to display all or part of a path name in a particular format. Use them as you would use **Dirname**, **Normpath**, **Realpath**, **Join**, or other path manipulators.
* You can use the **Path** cmdlets with several providers. These include the FileSystem, Registry, and Certificate providers.
* **Resolve-Path** is designed to work with the data exposed by any provider. To list the providers available in your session, type `Get-PSProvider`. For more information, see about_Providers.

## RELATED LINKS

[Convert-Path](Convert-Path.md)

[Join-Path](Join-Path.md)

[Split-Path](Split-Path.md)

[Test-Path](Test-Path.md)