---
external help file: Microsoft.PowerShell.Commands.Utility.dll-Help.xml
Locale: en-US
Module Name: Microsoft.PowerShell.Utility
ms.date: 12/21/2018
online version: https://docs.microsoft.com/powershell/module/microsoft.powershell.utility/convertfrom-csv?view=powershell-7.2&WT.mc_id=ps-gethelp
schema: 2.0.0
title: ConvertFrom-Csv
---
# ConvertFrom-Csv

## SYNOPSIS
Converts object properties in comma-separated value (CSV) format into CSV versions of the original
objects.

## SYNTAX

### Delimiter (Default)

```
ConvertFrom-Csv [[-Delimiter] <Char>] [-InputObject] <PSObject[]> [-Header <String[]>]
 [<CommonParameters>]
```

### UseCulture

```
ConvertFrom-Csv -UseCulture [-InputObject] <PSObject[]> [-Header <String[]>] [<CommonParameters>]
```

## DESCRIPTION

The `ConvertFrom-Csv` cmdlet creates objects from CSV variable-length strings that are generated by
the `ConvertTo-Csv` cmdlet.

You can use the parameters of this cmdlet to specify the column header row, which determines the
property names of the resulting objects, to specify the item delimiter, or to direct this cmdlet to
use the list separator for the current culture as the delimiter.

The objects that `ConvertFrom-Csv` creates are CSV versions of the original objects. The property
values of the CSV objects are string versions of the property values of the original objects. The
CSV versions of the objects do not have any methods.

You can also use the `Export-Csv` and `Import-Csv` cmdlets to convert objects to CSV strings in a
file (and back). These cmdlets are the same as the `ConvertTo-Csv` and `ConvertFrom-Csv` cmdlets,
except that they save the CSV strings in a file.

## EXAMPLES

### Example 1: Convert processes on the local computer to CSV format

This example shows how to convert the processes on the local computer into CSV format and then
restore them to object form.

```powershell
$P = Get-Process | ConvertTo-Csv
$P | ConvertFrom-Csv
```

The `Get-Process` cmdlet sends the processes down the pipeline to `ConvertTo-Csv`. The
`ConvertTo-Csv` cmdlet converts the process objects to a series of CSV strings. The
`ConvertFrom-Csv` cmdlet converts the CSV strings into CSV versions of the original process
objects. The CSV strings are saved in the `$P` variable.

### Example 2: Convert a data object to CSV format and then to CSV object format

This example shows how to convert a data object to CSV format and then to CSV object format.

```powershell
$Date = Get-Date | ConvertTo-Csv -Delimiter ';'
ConvertFrom-Csv -InputObject $Date -Delimiter ';'
```

The first command uses `Get-Date` to send the current date and time down the pipeline to
`ConvertTo-Csv`. The `ConvertTo-Csv` cmdlet converts the date object to a series of CSV strings.
The **Delimiter** parameter is used to specify a semicolon delimiter. The strings are saved in the
`$Date` variable.

### Example 3: Use the header parameter to change the names of properties

This example shows how to use the **Header** parameter of `ConvertFrom-Csv` to change the names of
properties in the resulting imported object.

```powershell
$J = Start-Job -ScriptBlock { Get-Process } | ConvertTo-Csv  -NoTypeInformation
$Header = 'State', 'MoreData', 'StatusMessage', 'Location', 'Command', 'StateInfo', 'Finished', 'InstanceId', 'Id', 'Name', 'ChildJobs', 'BeginTime', 'EndTime', 'JobType', 'Output', 'Error', 'Progress', 'Verbose', 'Debug', 'Warning', 'Information'
# Delete the default header from $J
$J = $J[1..($J.count - 1)]
$J | ConvertFrom-Csv -Header $Header
```

```Output
State         : Running
MoreData      : True
StatusMessage :
Location      : localhost
Command       : Get-Process
StateInfo     : Running
Finished      : System.Threading.ManualResetEvent
InstanceId    : a259eb63-6824-4b97-a033-305108ae1c2e
Id            : 1
Name          : Job1
ChildJobs     : System.Collections.Generic.List`1[System.Management.Automation.Job]
BeginTime     : 12/20/2018 18:59:57
EndTime       :
JobType       : BackgroundJob
Output        : System.Management.Automation.PSDataCollection`1[System.Management.Automation.PSObject]
Error         : System.Management.Automation.PSDataCollection`1[System.Management.Automation.ErrorRecord]
Progress      : System.Management.Automation.PSDataCollection`1[System.Management.Automation.ProgressRecord]
Verbose       : System.Management.Automation.PSDataCollection`1[System.Management.Automation.VerboseRecord]
Debug         : System.Management.Automation.PSDataCollection`1[System.Management.Automation.DebugRecord]
Warning       : System.Management.Automation.PSDataCollection`1[System.Management.Automation.WarningRecord]
Information   : System.Management.Automation.PSDataCollection`1[System.Management.Automation.InformationRecord]
```

The `Start-Job` cmdlet starts a background job that runs `Get-Process`. A job object is sent down
the pipeline to `ConvertTo-Csv` and converted to a CSV string. The **NoTypeInformation** parameter
removes the type information header from CSV output and is optional in PowerShell Core. The
`$Header` variable contains a custom header that replaces the following default values:
**HasMoreData**, **JobStateInfo**, **PSBeginTime**, **PSEndTime**, and **PSJobTypeName**. The `$J`
variable contains the CSV string and is used to remove the default header. The `ConvertFrom-Csv`
cmdlet converts the CSV string into a **PSCustomObject** and uses the **Header** parameter to apply
the `$Header` variable.

### Example 4: Convert CSV strings of service objects

This example shows how to use the `ConvertFrom-Csv` cmdlet with the **UseCulture** parameter.

```powershell
(Get-Culture).TextInfo.ListSeparator
$Services = (Get-Service | ConvertTo-Csv)
ConvertFrom-Csv -InputObject $Services -UseCulture
```

The `Get-Culture` cmdlet uses the nested properties **TextInfo** and **ListSeparator** to get the
current culture's default list separator. The `Get-Service` cmdlet sends service objects down the
pipeline to `ConvertTo-Csv`. The `ConvertTo-Csv` converts the service objects to a series of CSV
strings. The CSV strings are stored in the `$Services` variable. The `ConvertFrom-Csv` cmdlet uses
the **InputObject** parameter and converts the CSV strings from the `$Services` variable. The
**UseCulture** parameter uses the current culture's default list separator.

When the **UseCulture** parameter is used, be sure that the current culture's default list
separator matches the delimiter used in the CSV strings. Otherwise, `ConvertFrom-Csv` cannot
generate objects from the CSV strings.

## PARAMETERS

### -Delimiter

Specifies the delimiter that separates the property values in the CSV strings.
The default is a comma (,).

Enter a character, such as a colon (:).
To specify a semicolon (;) enclose it in single quotation marks.

If you specify a character other than the actual string delimiter in the file, `ConvertFrom-Csv`
cannot create the objects from the CSV strings and will return the CSV strings.

```yaml
Type: System.Char
Parameter Sets: Delimiter
Aliases:

Required: False
Position: 1
Default value: comma (,)
Accept pipeline input: False
Accept wildcard characters: False
```

### -Header

Specifies an alternate column header row for the imported string. The column header determines the
property names of the objects created by `ConvertFrom-Csv`.

Enter column headers as a comma-separated list. Do not enclose the header string in quotation
marks. Enclose each column header in single quotation marks.

If you enter fewer column headers than there are data columns, the remaining data columns are
discarded. If you enter more column headers than there are data columns, the additional column
headers are created with empty data columns.

When using the **Header** parameter, omit the column header string from the CSV strings. Otherwise,
this cmdlet creates an extra object from the items in the header row.

```yaml
Type: System.String[]
Parameter Sets: (All)
Aliases:

Required: False
Position: Named
Default value: None
Accept pipeline input: False
Accept wildcard characters: False
```

### -InputObject

Specifies the CSV strings to be converted to objects. Enter a variable that contains the CSV
strings or type a command or expression that gets the CSV strings. You can also pipe the CSV
strings to `ConvertFrom-Csv`.

```yaml
Type: System.Management.Automation.PSObject[]
Parameter Sets: (All)
Aliases:

Required: True
Position: 0
Default value: None
Accept pipeline input: True (ByPropertyName, ByValue)
Accept wildcard characters: False
```

### -UseCulture

Uses the list separator for the current culture as the item delimiter. To find the list separator
for a culture, use the following command: `(Get-Culture).TextInfo.ListSeparator`.

```yaml
Type: System.Management.Automation.SwitchParameter
Parameter Sets: UseCulture
Aliases:

Required: True
Position: Named
Default value: None
Accept pipeline input: False
Accept wildcard characters: False
```

### CommonParameters

This cmdlet supports the common parameters: -Debug, -ErrorAction, -ErrorVariable,
-InformationAction, -InformationVariable, -OutVariable, -OutBuffer, -PipelineVariable, -Verbose,
-WarningAction, and -WarningVariable. For more information, see
[about_CommonParameters](https://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?LinkID=113216).

## INPUTS

### System.String

You can pipe CSV strings to this cmdlet.

## OUTPUTS

### System.Management.Automation.PSObject

This cmdlet returns the objects described by the properties in the CSV strings.

## NOTES

Because the imported objects are CSV versions of the object type, they are not recognized and
formatted by the PowerShell type formatting entries that format the non-CSV versions of the object
type.

In CSV format, each object is represented by a comma-separated list of the property values of the
object. The property values are converted to strings (by using the **ToString()** method of the
object), so they are represented by the name of the property value. This cmdlet does not export the
methods of the object.

## RELATED LINKS

[ConvertTo-Csv](ConvertTo-Csv.md)

[Export-Csv](Export-Csv.md)

[Import-Csv](Import-Csv.md)

