---
external help file: Microsoft.PowerShell.Commands.Utility.dll-Help.xml
Locale: en-US
Module Name: Microsoft.PowerShell.Utility
ms.date: 04/08/2020
online version: https://docs.microsoft.com/powershell/module/microsoft.powershell.utility/invoke-expression?view=powershell-7.2&WT.mc_id=ps-gethelp
schema: 2.0.0
title: Invoke-Expression
---
# Invoke-Expression

## SYNOPSIS
Runs commands or expressions on the local computer.

## SYNTAX

```
Invoke-Expression [-Command] <String> [<CommonParameters>]
```

## DESCRIPTION

The `Invoke-Expression` cmdlet evaluates or runs a specified string as a command and returns the
results of the expression or command. Without `Invoke-Expression`, a string submitted at the command
line is returned (echoed) unchanged.

Expressions are evaluated and run in the current scope. For more information, see
[about_Scopes](../Microsoft.PowerShell.Core/About/about_Scopes.md).

> [!CAUTION]
> Take reasonable precautions when using the `Invoke-Expression` cmdlet in scripts. When using
> `Invoke-Expression` to run a command that the user enters, verify that the command is safe to run
> before running it. In general, it is best to design your script with predefined input options,
> rather than allowing freeform input.

## EXAMPLES

### Example 1: Evaluate an expression

```powershell
$Command = "Get-Process"
$Command
```

```Output
Get-Process
```

```powershell
Invoke-Expression $Command
```

```Output
Handles  NPM(K)    PM(K)      WS(K) VM(M)   CPU(s)     Id   ProcessName
-------  ------    -----      ----- -----   ------     --   -----------
296       4       1572       1956    20       0.53     1348   AdtAgent
270       6       1328       800     34       0.06     2396   alg
67        2       620        484     20       0.22     716    ati2evxx
1060      15      12904      11840   74       11.48    892    CcmExec
1400      33      25280      37544   223      38.44    2564   communicator
...
```

This example demonstrates the use of `Invoke-Expression` to evaluate an expression. Without
`Invoke-Expression`, the expression is printed, but not evaluated.

The first command assigns a value of `Get-Process` (a string) to the `$Command` variable.

The second command shows the effect of typing the variable name at the command line. PowerShell
echoes the string.

The third command uses `Invoke-Expression` to evaluate the string.

### Example 2: Run a script on the local computer

```powershell
Invoke-Expression -Command "C:\ps-test\testscript.ps1"
"C:\ps-test\testscript.ps1" | Invoke-Expression
```

These commands use `Invoke-Expression` to run a script, TestScript.ps1, on the local computer. The
two commands are equivalent. The first uses the **Command** parameter to specify the command to run.
The second uses a pipeline operator (`|`) to send the command string to `Invoke-Expression`.

### Example 3: Run a command in a variable

```powershell
$Command = 'Get-Process | where {$_.cpu -gt 1000}'
Invoke-Expression $Command
```

This example runs a command string that is saved in the `$Command` variable.

The command string is enclosed in single quotation marks because it includes a variable, `$_`, which
represents the current object. If it were enclosed in double quotation marks, the `$_` variable
would be replaced by its value before it was saved in the `$Command` variable.

### Example 4: Get and run a cmdlet Help example

```powershell
$Cmdlet_name = "Get-EventLog"
$Example_number = 1
$Example_code = (Get-Help $Cmdlet_name).examples.example[($Example_number-1)].code
Invoke-Expression $Example_code
```

This command retrieves and runs the first example in the `Get-EventLog` cmdlet Help topic.

To run an example of a different cmdlet, change the value of the `$Cmdlet_name` variable to the name
of the cmdlet. And, change the `$Example_number` variable to the example number you want to run. The
command fails if the example number is not valid.

## PARAMETERS

### -Command

Specifies the command or expression to run. Type the command or expression or enter a variable that
contains the command or expression. The **Command** parameter is required.

```yaml
Type: System.String
Parameter Sets: (All)
Aliases:

Required: True
Position: 0
Default value: None
Accept pipeline input: True (ByValue)
Accept wildcard characters: False
```

### CommonParameters

This cmdlet supports the common parameters: -Debug, -ErrorAction, -ErrorVariable,
-InformationAction, -InformationVariable, -OutVariable, -OutBuffer, -PipelineVariable, -Verbose,
-WarningAction, and -WarningVariable. For more information, see
[about_CommonParameters](../Microsoft.PowerShell.Core/About/about_CommonParameters.md).

## INPUTS

### System.String or PSObject

You can pipe an object that represents the command to `Invoke-Expression`.
Use the `$Input` automatic variable to represent the input objects in the command.

## OUTPUTS

### PSObject

Returns the output that is generated by the invoked command (the value of the **Command**
parameter).

## NOTES

In most cases, you invoke expressions using PowerShell's call operator and achieve the same results.
The call operator is a safer method. For more information, see
[about_Operators](../microsoft.powershell.core/about/about_operators.md#call-operator-).

## RELATED LINKS

[Invoke-Command](../Microsoft.PowerShell.Core/Invoke-Command.md)

[about_Scopes](../Microsoft.PowerShell.Core/About/about_Scopes.md)

