---
ms.date:  10/18/2018
schema:  2.0.0
locale:  en-us
keywords:  powershell,cmdlet
online version:  http://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?LinkId=821587
external help file:  Microsoft.PowerShell.Commands.Management.dll-Help.xml
title:  Get-Item
---
# Get-Item

## SYNOPSIS

Gets the item at the specified location.

## SYNTAX

### Path (Default)

```
Get-Item [-Path] <String[]> [-Filter <String>] [-Include <String[]>] [-Exclude <String[]>] [-Force]
 [-Credential <PSCredential>] [-UseTransaction] [-Stream <String[]>] [<CommonParameters>]
```

### LiteralPath

```
Get-Item -LiteralPath <String[]> [-Filter <String>] [-Include <String[]>] [-Exclude <String[]>] [-Force]
 [-Credential <PSCredential>] [-UseTransaction] [-Stream <String[]>] [<CommonParameters>]
```

## DESCRIPTION

The `Get-Item` cmdlet gets the item at the specified location.
It does not get the contents of the item at the location unless you use a wildcard character ('*') to request all the contents of the item.

This cmdlet is used by PowerShell providers to navigate through different types of data stores.

## EXAMPLES

### Example 1: Get the current directory

This command gets the current directory.
The dot ('.') represents the item at the current location (not its contents).

```powershell
Get-Item .
```

```output
Directory: C:\

Mode                LastWriteTime     Length Name
----                -------------     ------ ----
d----         7/26/2006  10:01 AM            ps-test
```

### Example 2: Get all the items in the current directory

This command gets all the items in the current directory.
The wildcard character ('*') represents all the contents of the current item.

```powershell
Get-Item *
```

```output
Directory: C:\ps-test

Mode                LastWriteTime     Length Name
----                -------------     ------ ----
d----         7/26/2006   9:29 AM            Logs
d----         7/26/2006   9:26 AM            Recs
-a---         7/26/2006   9:28 AM         80 date.csv
-a---         7/26/2006  10:01 AM         30 filenoext
-a---         7/26/2006   9:30 AM      11472 process.doc
-a---         7/14/2006  10:47 AM         30 test.txt
```

### Example 3: Get the current directory of a drive

This command gets the current directory of the C: drive.
The object that is retrieved represents only the directory, not its contents.

```powershell
Get-Item C:\
```

### Example 4: Get items in the specified drive

This command gets the items in the C: drive.
The wildcard character ('*') represents all the items in the container, not just the container.

In PowerShell, use a single asterisk ('*') to get contents, instead of the traditional "*.*".
The format is interpreted literally, so "*.*" would not retrieve directories or file names without a dot.

```powershell
Get-Item C:\*
```

### Example 5: Get a property in the specified directory

This command gets the **LastAccessTime** property of the "C:\Windows" directory.
**LastAccessTime** is just one property of file system directories.
To see all of the properties of a directory, type `(Get-Item \<directory-name\>) | Get-Member`.

```powershell
(Get-Item C:\Windows).LastAccessTime
```

### Example 6: Show the contents of a registry key

This command shows the contents of the **Microsoft.PowerShell** registry key.
You can use this cmdlet with the PowerShell Registry provider to get registry keys and subkeys, but you must use the `Get-ItemProperty` cmdlet to get the registry values and data.

```powershell
Get-Item HKLM:\Software\Microsoft\Powershell\1\Shellids\Microsoft.Powershell\
```

### Example 7: Get items in a directory that have an exclusion

This command gets items in the Windows directory with names that include a dot ('.'), but do not begin with "w*".
This command works only when the path includes a wildcard character ('*') to specify the contents of the item.

```powershell
Get-Item c:\Windows\*.* -Exclude "w*"
```

## PARAMETERS

### -Credential

Specifies a user account that has permission to perform this action.
The default is the current user.

Type a user name, such as "User01" or "Domain01\User01", or enter a **PSCredential** object, such as one generated by the `Get-Credential` cmdlet.
If you type a user name, you are prompted for a password.

> [!WARNING]
> This parameter is not supported by any providers installed with Windows PowerShell.

```yaml
Type: PSCredential
Parameter Sets: (All)
Aliases:

Required: False
Position: Named
Default value: Current user
Accept pipeline input: True (ByPropertyName)
Accept wildcard characters: False
```

### -Exclude

Specifies, as a string array, an item or items that this cmdlet excludes in the operation.
The value of this parameter qualifies the **Path** parameter.
Enter a path element or pattern, such as "*.txt".
Wildcard characters are permitted.

The **Exclude** parameter is effective only when the command includes the contents of an item, such as "C:\Windows\*", where the wildcard character specifies the contents of the "C:\Windows" directory.

```yaml
Type: String[]
Parameter Sets: (All)
Aliases:

Required: False
Position: Named
Default value: None
Accept pipeline input: False
Accept wildcard characters: True
```

### -Filter

Specifies a filter in the format or language of the provider.
The value of this parameter qualifies the **Path** parameter.

The syntax of the filter, including the use of wildcard characters, depends on the provider.
Filters are more efficient than other parameters, because the provider applies them when the cmdlet gets the objects rather than having PowerShell filter the objects after they are retrieved.

```yaml
Type: String
Parameter Sets: (All)
Aliases:

Required: False
Position: Named
Default value: None
Accept pipeline input: False
Accept wildcard characters: True
```

### -Force

Indicates that this cmdlet gets items that cannot otherwise be accessed, such as hidden items.
Implementation varies from provider to provider.
For more information, see [about_Providers](../Microsoft.PowerShell.Core/About/about_Providers.md).
Even using the **Force** parameter, the cmdlet cannot override security restrictions.

```yaml
Type: SwitchParameter
Parameter Sets: (All)
Aliases:

Required: False
Position: Named
Default value: False
Accept pipeline input: False
Accept wildcard characters: False
```

### -Include

Specifies, as a string array, an item or items that this cmdlet includes in the operation.
The value of this parameter qualifies the **Path** parameter.
Enter a path element or pattern, such as "*.txt".
Wildcard characters are permitted.

The **Include** parameter is effective only when the command includes the contents of an item, such as "C:\Windows\*", where the wildcard character specifies the contents of the "C:\Windows" directory.

```yaml
Type: String[]
Parameter Sets: (All)
Aliases:

Required: False
Position: Named
Default value: None
Accept pipeline input: False
Accept wildcard characters: True
```

### -LiteralPath

Specifies a path to the item.
Unlike the **Path** parameter, the value of **LiteralPath** is used exactly as it is typed.
No characters are interpreted as wildcards.
If the path includes escape characters, enclose it in single quotation marks.
Single quotation marks tell PowerShell not to interpret any characters as escape sequences.

```yaml
Type: String[]
Parameter Sets: LiteralPath
Aliases: PSPath

Required: True
Position: Named
Default value: None
Accept pipeline input: True (ByPropertyName)
Accept wildcard characters: False
```

### -Path

Specifies the path to an item.
This cmdlet gets the item at the specified location.
Wildcards are permitted.
This parameter is required, but the parameter name ("Path") is optional.

Use a dot ('.') to specify the current location.
Use the wildcard character ('*') to specify all the items in the current location.

```yaml
Type: String[]
Parameter Sets: Path
Aliases:

Required: True
Position: 0
Default value: None
Accept pipeline input: True (ByPropertyName, ByValue)
Accept wildcard characters: False
```

### -Stream

Gets the specified alternate NTFS file stream from the file. Enter the stream name. Wildcards are supported. To get all streams, use an asterisk (*). This parameter is not valid on folders.

Stream is a dynamic parameter that the FileSystem provider adds to the `Get-Item` cmdlet. This parameter works only in file system drives.

```yaml
Type: String[]
Parameter Sets: (All)
Aliases:

Required: False
Position: Named
Default value: No alternate file streams
Accept pipeline input: False
Accept wildcard characters: True
```

### -UseTransaction

Includes the command in the active transaction.
This parameter is valid only when a transaction is in progress.
For more information, see [about_Transactions](../Microsoft.PowerShell.Core/About/about_Transactions.md).

```yaml
Type: SwitchParameter
Parameter Sets: (All)
Aliases: usetx

Required: False
Position: Named
Default value: False
Accept pipeline input: False
Accept wildcard characters: False
```

### CommonParameters

This cmdlet supports the common parameters: `-Debug`, `-ErrorAction`, `-ErrorVariable`, `-InformationAction`, `-InformationVariable`, `-OutVariable`, `-OutBuffer`, `-PipelineVariable`, `-Verbose`, `-WarningAction`, and `-WarningVariable`. For more information, see [about_CommonParameters](../Microsoft.PowerShell.Core/About/about_CommonParameters.md).

## INPUTS

### System.String

You can pipe a string that contains a path to this cmdlet.

## OUTPUTS

### System.Object

This cmdlet returns the objects that it gets.
The type is determined by the type of objects in the path.

## NOTES

This cmdlet does not have a **Recurse** parameter, because it gets only an item, not its contents.
To get the contents of an item recursively, use `Get-ChildItem`.

To navigate through the registry, use this cmdlet to get registry keys and the `Get-ItemProperty` to get registry values and data.
The registry values are considered to be properties of the registry key.

This cmdlet is designed to work with the data exposed by any provider.
To list the providers available in your session, type `Get-PsProvider`.
For more information, see [about_Providers](../Microsoft.PowerShell.Core/About/about_Providers.md).

## RELATED LINKS

[Clear-Item](Clear-Item.md)

[Copy-Item](Copy-Item.md)

[Invoke-Item](Invoke-Item.md)

[Move-Item](Move-Item.md)

[New-Item](New-Item.md)

[Remove-Item](Remove-Item.md)

[Rename-Item](Rename-Item.md)

[Set-Item](Set-Item.md)

[Get-ChildItem](Get-ChildItem.md)

[Get-ItemProperty](Get-ItemProperty.md)

[Get-PSProvider](Get-PSProvider.md)