---
ms.date:  10/18/2018
schema:  2.0.0
locale:  en-us
keywords:  powershell,cmdlet
online version:  http://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?LinkId=822243
external help file:  Microsoft.PowerShell.Commands.Management.dll-Help.xml
title:  Invoke-Item
---
# Invoke-Item

## SYNOPSIS

Performs the default action on the specified item.

## SYNTAX

### Path (Default)

```
Invoke-Item [-Path] <String[]> [-Filter <String>] [-Include <String[]>] [-Exclude <String[]>]
 [-Credential <PSCredential>] [-WhatIf] [-Confirm] [-UseTransaction] [<CommonParameters>]
```

### LiteralPath

```
Invoke-Item -LiteralPath <String[]> [-Filter <String>] [-Include <String[]>] [-Exclude <String[]>]
 [-Credential <PSCredential>] [-WhatIf] [-Confirm] [-UseTransaction] [<CommonParameters>]
```

## DESCRIPTION

The `Invoke-Item` cmdlet performs the default action on the specified item.
For example, it runs an executable file or opens a document file in the application associated with the document file type.
The default action depends on the type of item and is determined by the PowerShell provider that provides access to the data.

## EXAMPLES

### Example 1: Open a file

This command opens the file "aliasApr04.doc" in Microsoft Office Word.
In this case, opening in Word is the default action for ".doc" files.

```powershell
Invoke-Item "C:\Test\aliasApr04.doc"
```

### Example 2: Open all files of a specific type

This command opens all of the Microsoft Office Excel spreadsheets in the "C:\Documents and Settings\Lister\My Documents" folder.
Each spreadsheet is opened in a new instance of Excel.
In this case, opening in Excel is the default action for ".xls" files.

```powershell
Invoke-Item "C:\Documents and Settings\Lister\My Documents\*.xls"
```

## PARAMETERS

### -Credential

Specifies a user account that has permission to perform this action.
The default is the current user.

Type a user name, such as "User01" or "Domain01\User01", or enter a **PSCredential** object, such as one generated by the `Get-Credential` cmdlet.
If you type a user name, you are prompted for a password.

> [!WARNING]
> This parameter is not supported by any providers installed with Windows PowerShell.

```yaml
Type: PSCredential
Parameter Sets: (All)
Aliases:

Required: False
Position: Named
Default value: Current user
Accept pipeline input: True (ByPropertyName)
Accept wildcard characters: False
```

### -Exclude

Specifies, as a string array, an item or items that this cmdlet excludes from the operation.
The value of this parameter qualifies the **Path** parameter.
Enter a path element or pattern, such as "*.txt".
Wildcard characters are permitted.

```yaml
Type: String[]
Parameter Sets: (All)
Aliases:

Required: False
Position: Named
Default value: None
Accept pipeline input: False
Accept wildcard characters: True
```

### -Filter

Specifies a filter in the format or language of the provider.
The value of this parameter qualifies the **Path** parameter.

The syntax of the filter, including the use of wildcard characters, depends on the provider.
Filters are more efficient than other parameters, because the provider applies them when the cmdlet gets the objects rather than having PowerShell filter the objects after they are retrieved.

```yaml
Type: String
Parameter Sets: (All)
Aliases:

Required: False
Position: Named
Default value: None
Accept pipeline input: False
Accept wildcard characters: True
```

### -Include

Specifies, as a string array, an item or items that this cmdlet includes in the operation.
The value of this parameter qualifies the **Path** parameter.
Enter a path element or pattern, such as "*.txt".
Wildcard characters are permitted.

```yaml
Type: String[]
Parameter Sets: (All)
Aliases:

Required: False
Position: Named
Default value: None
Accept pipeline input: False
Accept wildcard characters: False
```

### -LiteralPath

Specifies a path to the item.
Unlike the **Path** parameter, the value of **LiteralPath** is used exactly as it is typed.
No characters are interpreted as wildcards.
If the path includes escape characters, enclose it in single quotation marks.
Single quotation marks tell PowerShell not to interpret any characters as escape sequences.

```yaml
Type: String[]
Parameter Sets: LiteralPath
Aliases: PSPath

Required: True
Position: Named
Default value: None
Accept pipeline input: True (ByPropertyName)
Accept wildcard characters: False
```

### -Path

Specifies the path to the selected item.

```yaml
Type: String[]
Parameter Sets: Path
Aliases:

Required: True
Position: 0
Default value: None
Accept pipeline input: True (ByPropertyName, ByValue)
Accept wildcard characters: False
```

### -UseTransaction

Includes the command in the active transaction.
This parameter is valid only when a transaction is in progress.
For more information, see about_transactions.

```yaml
Type: SwitchParameter
Parameter Sets: (All)
Aliases: usetx

Required: False
Position: Named
Default value: False
Accept pipeline input: False
Accept wildcard characters: False
```

### -Confirm
Prompts you for confirmation before running the cmdlet.

```yaml
Type: SwitchParameter
Parameter Sets: (All)
Aliases: cf

Required: False
Position: Named
Default value: False
Accept pipeline input: False
Accept wildcard characters: False
```

### -WhatIf

Shows what would happen if the cmdlet runs.
The cmdlet is not run.

```yaml
Type: SwitchParameter
Parameter Sets: (All)
Aliases: wi

Required: False
Position: Named
Default value: False
Accept pipeline input: False
Accept wildcard characters: False
```

### CommonParameters

This cmdlet supports the common parameters: `-Debug`, `-ErrorAction`, `-ErrorVariable`, `-InformationAction`, `-InformationVariable`, `-OutVariable`, `-OutBuffer`, `-PipelineVariable`, `-Verbose`, `-WarningAction`, and `-WarningVariable`. For more information, see [about_CommonParameters](../Microsoft.PowerShell.Core/About/about_CommonParameters.md).

## INPUTS

### System.String

You can pipe a string that contains a path to this cmdlet.

## OUTPUTS

### None

The command does not generate any output.
However, output might be generated by the item that it invokes.

## NOTES

This cmdlet is designed to work with the data exposed by any provider. To list the providers available in your session, type `Get-PSProvider`. For more information, see about_Providers.

## RELATED LINKS

[Clear-Item](Clear-Item.md)

[Copy-Item](Copy-Item.md)

[Get-Item](Get-Item.md)

[Move-Item](Move-Item.md)

[New-Item](New-Item.md)

[Remove-Item](Remove-Item.md)

[Rename-Item](Rename-Item.md)

[Set-Item](Set-Item.md)