---
external help file: Microsoft.PowerShell.Commands.Management.dll-Help.xml
keywords: powershell,cmdlet
Locale: en-US
Module Name: Microsoft.PowerShell.Management
ms.date: 07/30/2020
online version: https://docs.microsoft.com/powershell/module/microsoft.powershell.management/register-wmievent?view=powershell-5.1&WT.mc_id=ps-gethelp
schema: 2.0.0
title: Register-WmiEvent
---
# Register-WmiEvent

## SYNOPSIS
Subscribes to a Windows Management Instrumentation (WMI) event.

## SYNTAX

### class (Default)

```
Register-WmiEvent [-Namespace <String>] [-Credential <PSCredential>] [-ComputerName <String>] [-Class] <String>
 [-Timeout <Int64>] [[-SourceIdentifier] <String>] [[-Action] <ScriptBlock>] [-MessageData <PSObject>]
 [-SupportEvent] [-Forward] [-MaxTriggerCount <Int32>] [<CommonParameters>]
```

### query

```
Register-WmiEvent [-Namespace <String>] [-Credential <PSCredential>] [-ComputerName <String>] [-Query] <String>
 [-Timeout <Int64>] [[-SourceIdentifier] <String>] [[-Action] <ScriptBlock>] [-MessageData <PSObject>]
 [-SupportEvent] [-Forward] [-MaxTriggerCount <Int32>] [<CommonParameters>]
```

## DESCRIPTION

The `Register-WmiEvent` cmdlet subscribes to Windows Management Instrumentation (WMI) events on
the local computer or on a remote computer.

When the subscribed WMI event is raised, it is added to the event queue in your local session even
if the event occurs on a remote computer. To get events in the event queue, use the `Get-Event`
cmdlet.

You can use the parameters of `Register-WmiEvent` to subscribe to events on remote computers and to
specify the property values of the events that can help you identify the event in the queue. You can
also use the **Action** parameter to specify actions to take when a subscribed event is raised.

When you subscribe to an event, an event subscriber is added to your session. To get the event
subscribers in the session, use the `Get-EventSubscriber` cmdlet. To cancel the subscription, use
the `Unregister-Event` cmdlet, which deletes the event subscriber from the session.

New Common Information Model (CIM) cmdlets, introduced Windows PowerShell 3.0, perform the same
tasks as the WMI cmdlets. The CIM cmdlets comply with WS-Management (WSMan) standards and with the
CIM standard, which enables the cmdlets to use the same techniques to manage computers that run the
Windows operating system and those that run other operating systems. Instead of using
`Register-WmiEvent`, consider using the
[Register-CimIndicationEvent](../cimcmdlets/register-cimindicationevent.md) cmdlet.

## EXAMPLES

### Example 1: Subscribe to events generated by a class

This command subscribes to the events generated by the **Win32_ProcessStartTrace** class. This class
raises an event whenever a process starts.

```powershell
Register-WmiEvent -Class 'Win32_ProcessStartTrace' -SourceIdentifier "ProcessStarted"
```

### Example 2: Subscribe to creation events for a process

This command uses a query to subscribe to Win32_process instance creation events.

```powershell
$wmiParameters = @{
  Query = "select * from __instancecreationevent within 5 where targetinstance isa 'win32_process'"
  SourceIdentifier = "WMIProcess"
  MessageData = "Test 01"
  TimeOut = 500
}
Register-WmiEvent @wmiParameters
```

### Example 3: Use an action to respond to an event

This example shows how to use an action to respond to an event. In this case, when a process starts,
any `Start-Process` commands in the current session are written to an XML file.

```powershell
$action = { Get-History | where { $_.commandline -like "*start-process*" } | export-cliXml "commandHistory.clixml" }
Register-WmiEvent -Class 'Win32_ProcessStartTrace' -SourceIdentifier "ProcessStarted" -Action $action
```

```Output
Id    Name            State      HasMoreData   Location  Command
--    ----            -----      -----------   --------  -------
1     ProcessStarted  NotStarted False                   get-history | where {...
```

When you use the **Action** parameter, `Register-WmiEvent` returns a background job that represents
the event action. You can use the **Job** cmdlets, such as `Get-Job` and `Receive-Job`, to manage
the event job.

For more information, see about_Jobs.

### Example 4: Register for events on a remote computer

This example registers for events on the Server01 remote computer.

```powershell
Register-WmiEvent -Class 'Win32_ProcessStartTrace' -SourceIdentifier "Start" -Computername Server01
Get-Event -SourceIdentifier "Start"
```

WMI returns the events to the local computer and stores them in the event queue in the current
session. To retrieve the events, run a local `Get-Event` command.

## PARAMETERS

### -Action

Specifies commands that handle the events. The commands in the **Action** parameter run when an
event is raised instead of sending the event to the event queue. Enclose the commands in braces
(`{}`) to create a script block.

The value of **Action** can include the `$Event`, `$EventSubscriber`, `$Sender`, `$EventArgs`, and
`$Args` automatic variables, which provide information about the event to the **Action** script
block. For more information, see about_Automatic_Variables.

When you specify an action, `Register-WmiEvent` returns an event job object that represents that
action. You can use the cmdlets that contain the **Job** noun (the **Job** cmdlets) to manage the
event job.

```yaml
Type: System.Management.Automation.ScriptBlock
Parameter Sets: (All)
Aliases:

Required: False
Position: 101
Default value: None
Accept pipeline input: False
Accept wildcard characters: False
```

### -Class

Specifies the event to which you are subscribing. Enter the WMI class that generates the events. A
**Class** or **Query** parameter is required in every command.

```yaml
Type: System.String
Parameter Sets: class
Aliases:

Required: True
Position: 0
Default value: None
Accept pipeline input: False
Accept wildcard characters: False
```

### -ComputerName

Specifies the name of the computer on which the command runs. The default is the local computer.

Type the NetBIOS name, an IP address, or a fully qualified domain name of the computer. To specify
the local computer, type the computer name, a dot (`.`), or localhost.

This parameter does not rely on Windows PowerShell remoting. You can use the **ComputerName**
parameter even if your computer is not configured to run remote commands.

```yaml
Type: System.String
Parameter Sets: (All)
Aliases: Cn

Required: False
Position: Named
Default value: None
Accept pipeline input: False
Accept wildcard characters: False
```

### -Credential

Specifies a user account that has permission to perform this action. The default is the current
user.

Type a user name, such as User01 or Domain01\User01, or enter a **PSCredential** object, such as one
generated by the `Get-Credential` cmdlet. If you type a user name, this cmdlet prompts you for a
password.

```yaml
Type: System.Management.Automation.PSCredential
Parameter Sets: (All)
Aliases:

Required: False
Position: Named
Default value: None
Accept pipeline input: False
Accept wildcard characters: False
```

### -Forward

Indicates that this cmdlet sends events for this subscription to the session on the local computer.
Use this parameter when you are registering for events on a remote computer or in a remote session.

```yaml
Type: System.Management.Automation.SwitchParameter
Parameter Sets: (All)
Aliases:

Required: False
Position: Named
Default value: None
Accept pipeline input: False
Accept wildcard characters: False
```

### -MaxTriggerCount

Specifies the maximum trigger count.

```yaml
Type: System.Int32
Parameter Sets: (All)
Aliases:

Required: False
Position: Named
Default value: None
Accept pipeline input: False
Accept wildcard characters: False
```

### -MessageData

Specifies any additional data to be associated with this event subscription. The value of this
parameter appears in the **MessageData** property of all events associated with this subscription.

```yaml
Type: System.Management.Automation.PSObject
Parameter Sets: (All)
Aliases:

Required: False
Position: Named
Default value: None
Accept pipeline input: False
Accept wildcard characters: False
```

### -Namespace

Specifies the namespace of the WMI class.

```yaml
Type: System.String
Parameter Sets: (All)
Aliases: NS

Required: False
Position: Named
Default value: None
Accept pipeline input: False
Accept wildcard characters: False
```

### -Query

Specifies a query in WMI Query Language (WQL) that identifies the WMI event class, such as:
`select * from __InstanceDeletionEvent`.

```yaml
Type: System.String
Parameter Sets: query
Aliases:

Required: True
Position: 0
Default value: None
Accept pipeline input: False
Accept wildcard characters: False
```

### -SourceIdentifier

Specifies a name that you select for the subscription. The name that you select must be unique in
the current session. The default value is the GUID that Windows PowerShell assigns.

The value of this parameter appears in the value of the **SourceIdentifier** property of the
subscriber object and of all event objects associated with this subscription.

```yaml
Type: System.String
Parameter Sets: (All)
Aliases:

Required: False
Position: 100
Default value: None
Accept pipeline input: False
Accept wildcard characters: False
```

### -SupportEvent

Indicates that this cmdlet hides the event subscription. Use this parameter when the current
subscription is part of a more complex event registration mechanism and it should not be discovered
independently.

To view or cancel a subscription that was created by using the **SupportEvent** parameter, specify
the **Force** parameter of the `Get-EventSubscriber` and `Unregister-Event` cmdlets.

```yaml
Type: System.Management.Automation.SwitchParameter
Parameter Sets: (All)
Aliases:

Required: False
Position: Named
Default value: None
Accept pipeline input: False
Accept wildcard characters: False
```

### -Timeout

Specifies how long Windows PowerShell waits for this command to finish.

The default value, 0 (zero), means that there is no time-out, and it causes Windows PowerShell to
wait indefinitely.

```yaml
Type: System.Int64
Parameter Sets: (All)
Aliases: TimeoutMSec

Required: False
Position: Named
Default value: None
Accept pipeline input: False
Accept wildcard characters: False
```

### CommonParameters

This cmdlet supports the common parameters: -Debug, -ErrorAction, -ErrorVariable,
-InformationAction, -InformationVariable, -OutVariable, -OutBuffer, -PipelineVariable, -Verbose,
-WarningAction, and -WarningVariable. For more information, see
[about_CommonParameters](https://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?LinkID=113216).

## INPUTS

### None

You cannot pipe objects to this cmdlet.

## OUTPUTS

### None

This cmdlet does not generate any output.

## NOTES

To use this cmdlet in Windows Vista or a later version of the Windows operating system, start
Windows PowerShell by using the Run as administrator option.

Events, event subscriptions, and the event queue exist only in the current session. If you close the
current session, the event queue is discarded and the event subscription is canceled.

## RELATED LINKS
