---
ms.date:  10/18/2018
schema:  2.0.0
locale:  en-us
keywords:  powershell,cmdlet
online version:  http://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?LinkId=821621
external help file:  Microsoft.PowerShell.Commands.Management.dll-Help.xml
title:  Rename-Item
---
# Rename-Item

## SYNOPSIS

Renames an item in a PowerShell provider namespace.

## SYNTAX

### ByPath (Default)

```
Rename-Item [-Path] <String> [-NewName] <String> [-Force] [-PassThru] [-Credential <PSCredential>] [-WhatIf]
 [-Confirm] [-UseTransaction] [<CommonParameters>]
```

### ByLiteralPath

```
Rename-Item -LiteralPath <String> [-NewName] <String> [-Force] [-PassThru] [-Credential <PSCredential>]
 [-WhatIf] [-Confirm] [-UseTransaction] [<CommonParameters>]
```

## DESCRIPTION

The `Rename-Item` cmdlet changes the name of a specified item.
This cmdlet does not affect the content of the item being renamed.

You cannot use `Rename-Item` to move an item, such as by specifying a path together with the new name.
To move and rename an item, use the `Move-Item` cmdlet.

## EXAMPLES

### Example 1: Rename a file

This command renames the file "daily_file.txt" to "monday_file.txt".

```powershell
Rename-Item -Path "c:\logfiles\daily_file.txt" -NewName "monday_file.txt"
```

### Example 2: Rename and move an item

This example shows that you cannot use `Rename-Item` to both rename and move an item.
Specifically, you cannot supply a path for the value of the **NewName** parameter, unless the path is identical to the path specified in the **Path** parameter.
Otherwise, only a new name is permitted.

This command attempts to rename the "project.txt" file in the current directory to "old-project.txt" in the "D:\Archive" directory. The result is the error shown in the output.

```
PS C:\>  Rename-Item -Path "project.txt" -NewName "d:\archive\old-project.txt"

Rename-Item : Cannot rename because the target specified represents a path or device name.
At line:1 char:12
+ Rename-Item <<<<  -path project.txt -NewName d:\archive\old-project.txt
+ CategoryInfo          : InvalidArgument: (:) [Rename-Item], PS>  Move-Item -Path "project.txt" -Destination "d:\archive\old-project.txt"
```

### Example 3: Rename a registry key

This command renames a registry key from "Advertising" to "Marketing".
When the command is complete, the key is renamed, but the registry entries in the key are unchanged.

```powershell
Rename-Item -Path "HKLM:\Software\MyCompany\Advertising" -NewName "Marketing"
```

### Example 4: Rename multiple files

This example shows how to use the **Replace** operator to rename multiple files, even though the **NewName** parameter does not accept wildcard characters.

This command renames all of the ".txt" files in the current directory to ".log".

The command uses the `Get-ChildItem` cmdlet to get all of the files in the current folder that have a .txt file name extension.
Then, it uses the pipeline operator (`|`) to send those files to `Rename-Item`.

The value of **NewName** is a script block that runs before the value is submitted to the **NewName** parameter.

In the script block, the `$_` automatic variable represents each file object as it comes to the command through the pipeline.
The command uses the dot format ('.') to get the **Name** property of each file object.
The **Replace** operator replaces the ".txt" file name extension of each file with ".log".

Because the **Replace** operator works with regular expressions, the dot in front of "txt" is interpreted to match any character.
To make sure that it matches only a dot ('.'), it is escaped with a backslash character (\\).
The backslash character is not required in ".log" because it is a string, not a regular expression.

To make sure that ".txt" is an extension, i.e. last part of the string representing the name, a dollar sign (`$`) is added after "\\.txt".

```powershell
Get-ChildItem *.txt | Rename-Item -NewName { $_.name -Replace '\.txt$','.log' }
```

## PARAMETERS

### -Credential

Specifies a user account that has permission to perform this action.
The default is the current user.

Type a user name, such as "User01" or "Domain01\User01", or enter a **PSCredential** object, such as one generated by the `Get-Credential` cmdlet.
If you type a user name, you are prompted for a password.

> [!WARNING]
> This parameter is not supported by any providers installed with Windows PowerShell.

```yaml
Type: PSCredential
Parameter Sets: (All)
Aliases:

Required: False
Position: Named
Default value: Current user
Accept pipeline input: True (ByPropertyName)
Accept wildcard characters: False
```

### -Force

Forces the cmdlet to rename items that cannot otherwise be changed, such as hidden or read-only files or read-only aliases or variables.
The cmdlet cannot change constant aliases or variables.
Implementation varies from provider to provider.
For more information, see [about_Providers](../Microsoft.PowerShell.Core/About/about_Providers.md).

Even using the **Force** parameter, the cmdlet cannot override security restrictions.

```yaml
Type: SwitchParameter
Parameter Sets: (All)
Aliases:

Required: False
Position: Named
Default value: None
Accept pipeline input: False
Accept wildcard characters: False
```

### -LiteralPath

Specifies the path of the item to rename.
Unlike the **Path** parameter, the value of **LiteralPath** is used exactly as it is typed.
No characters are interpreted as wildcards.
If the path includes escape characters, enclose it in single quotation marks.
Single quotation marks tell PowerShell not to interpret any characters as escape sequences.

```yaml
Type: String
Parameter Sets: ByLiteralPath
Aliases: PSPath

Required: True
Position: Named
Default value: None
Accept pipeline input: True (ByPropertyName)
Accept wildcard characters: False
```

### -NewName

Specifies the new name of the item.
Enter only a name, not a path and name.
If you enter a path that differs from the path that is specified in the *Path* parameter, `Rename-Item` generates an error.
To rename and move an item, use `Move-Item`.

You cannot use wildcard characters in the value of the *NewName* parameter.
To specify a name for multiple files, use the **Replace** operator in a regular expression.
For more information about the Replace operator, see [about_Comparison_Operators](../Microsoft.PowerShell.Core/About/about_Comparison_Operators.md).

```yaml
Type: String
Parameter Sets: (All)
Aliases:

Required: True
Position: 1
Default value: None
Accept pipeline input: True (ByPropertyName)
Accept wildcard characters: False
```

### -PassThru

Returns an object that represents the item to the pipeline.
By default, this cmdlet does not generate any output.

```yaml
Type: SwitchParameter
Parameter Sets: (All)
Aliases:

Required: False
Position: Named
Default value: None
Accept pipeline input: False
Accept wildcard characters: False
```

### -Path

Specifies the path of the item to rename.

```yaml
Type: String
Parameter Sets: ByPath
Aliases:

Required: True
Position: 0
Default value: None
Accept pipeline input: True (ByPropertyName, ByValue)
Accept wildcard characters: False
```

### -UseTransaction

Includes the command in the active transaction.
This parameter is valid only when a transaction is in progress.
For more information, see [about_Transactions](../Microsoft.PowerShell.Core/About/about_Transactions.md).

```yaml
Type: SwitchParameter
Parameter Sets: (All)
Aliases: usetx

Required: False
Position: Named
Default value: False
Accept pipeline input: False
Accept wildcard characters: False
```

### -Confirm
Prompts you for confirmation before running the cmdlet.

```yaml
Type: SwitchParameter
Parameter Sets: (All)
Aliases: cf

Required: False
Position: Named
Default value: False
Accept pipeline input: False
Accept wildcard characters: False
```

### -WhatIf

Shows what would happen if the cmdlet runs.
The cmdlet is not run.

```yaml
Type: SwitchParameter
Parameter Sets: (All)
Aliases: wi

Required: False
Position: Named
Default value: False
Accept pipeline input: False
Accept wildcard characters: False
```

### CommonParameters

This cmdlet supports the common parameters: `-Debug`, `-ErrorAction`, `-ErrorVariable`, `-InformationAction`, `-InformationVariable`, `-OutVariable`, `-OutBuffer`, `-PipelineVariable`, `-Verbose`, `-WarningAction`, and `-WarningVariable`. For more information, see [about_CommonParameters](../Microsoft.PowerShell.Core/About/about_CommonParameters.md).

## INPUTS

### System.String

You can pipe a string that contains a path to this cmdlet.

## OUTPUTS

### None or an object that represents the renamed item.

This cmdlet generates an object that represents the renamed item, if you specify the *PassThru* parameter.
Otherwise, this cmdlet does not generate any output.

## NOTES

`Rename-Item` is designed to work with the data exposed by any provider. To list the providers available in your session, type `Get-PsProvider`. For more information, see [about_Providers](../Microsoft.PowerShell.Core/About/about_Providers.md).

## RELATED LINKS

[Clear-Item](Clear-Item.md)

[Copy-Item](Copy-Item.md)

[Get-ChildItem](Get-ChildItem.md)

[Get-Item](Get-Item.md)

[Invoke-Item](Invoke-Item.md)

[Move-Item](Move-Item.md)

[New-Item](New-Item.md)

[Remove-Item](Remove-Item.md)

[Rename-ItemProperty](Rename-ItemProperty.md)

[Set-Item](Set-Item.md)