---
external help file: System.Management.Automation.dll-Help.xml
Locale: en-US
Module Name: Microsoft.PowerShell.Core
ms.date: 09/03/2020
online version: https://docs.microsoft.com/powershell/module/microsoft.powershell.core/get-help?view=powershell-7.2&WT.mc_id=ps-gethelp
schema: 2.0.0
title: Get-Help
---

# Get-Help

## SYNOPSIS
Displays information about PowerShell commands and concepts.

## SYNTAX

### AllUsersView (Default)

```
Get-Help [[-Name] <String>] [-Path <String>] [-Category <String[]>] [-Full] [-Component <String[]>]
 [-Functionality <String[]>] [-Role <String[]>] [<CommonParameters>]
```

### DetailedView

```
Get-Help [[-Name] <String>] [-Path <String>] [-Category <String[]>] -Detailed
 [-Component <String[]>] [-Functionality <String[]>] [-Role <String[]>] [<CommonParameters>]
```

### Examples

```
Get-Help [[-Name] <String>] [-Path <String>] [-Category <String[]>] -Examples
 [-Component <String[]>] [-Functionality <String[]>] [-Role <String[]>] [<CommonParameters>]
```

### Parameters

```
Get-Help [[-Name] <String>] [-Path <String>] [-Category <String[]>] -Parameter <String[]>
 [-Component <String[]>] [-Functionality <String[]>] [-Role <String[]>] [<CommonParameters>]
```

### Online

```
Get-Help [[-Name] <String>] [-Path <String>] [-Category <String[]>] [-Component <String[]>]
 [-Functionality <String[]>] [-Role <String[]>] -Online [<CommonParameters>]
```

### ShowWindow

```
Get-Help [[-Name] <String>] [-Path <String>] [-Category <String[]>] [-Component <String[]>]
 [-Functionality <String[]>] [-Role <String[]>] -ShowWindow [<CommonParameters>]
```

## DESCRIPTION

The `Get-Help` cmdlet displays information about PowerShell concepts and commands, including
cmdlets, functions, Common Information Model (CIM) commands, workflows, providers, aliases, and
scripts.

To get help for a PowerShell cmdlet, type `Get-Help` followed by the cmdlet name, such as:
`Get-Help Get-Process`.

Conceptual help articles in PowerShell begin with **about_**, such as
**about_Comparison_Operators**. To see all **about_** articles, type `Get-Help about_*`. To see a
particular article, type `Get-Help about_<article-name>`, such as
`Get-Help about_Comparison_Operators`.

To get help for a PowerShell provider, type `Get-Help` followed by the provider name. For example,
to get help for the Certificate provider, type `Get-Help Certificate`.

You can also type `help` or `man`, which displays one screen of text at a time. Or,
`<cmdlet-name> -?`, that is identical to `Get-Help`, but only works for cmdlets.

`Get-Help` gets the help content that it displays from help files on your computer. Without the help
files, `Get-Help` displays only basic information about cmdlets. Some PowerShell modules include
help files. Beginning in PowerShell 3.0, the modules that come with the Windows operating system
don't include help files. To download or update the help files for a module in PowerShell 3.0, use
the `Update-Help` cmdlet.

You can also view the PowerShell help documents online in the Microsoft Docs. To get the online
version of a help file, use the **Online** parameter, such as: `Get-Help Get-Process -Online`. To
read all the PowerShell documentation, see the Microsoft Docs [PowerShell Documentation](/powershell).

If you type `Get-Help` followed by the exact name of a help article, or by a word unique to a help
article, `Get-Help` displays the article's content. If you specify the exact name of a command
alias, `Get-Help` displays the help for the original command. If you enter a word or word pattern
that appears in several help article titles, `Get-Help` displays a list of the matching titles. If
you enter any text that doesn't appear in any help article titles, `Get-Help` displays a list of
articles that include that text in their contents.

`Get-Help` can get help articles for all supported languages and locales. `Get-Help` first looks for
help files in the locale set for Windows, then in the parent locale, such as **pt** for **pt-BR**,
and then in a fallback locale. Beginning in PowerShell 3.0, if `Get-Help` doesn't find help in the
fallback locale, it looks for help articles in English, **en-US**, before it returns an error
message or displaying autogenerated help.

For information about the symbols that `Get-Help` displays in the command syntax diagram, see [about_Command_Syntax](./About/about_Command_Syntax.md).
For information about parameter attributes, such as **Required** and **Position**, see [about_Parameters](./About/about_Parameters.md).

>[!NOTE]
> In PowerShell 3.0 and PowerShell 4.0, `Get-Help` can't find **About** articles in modules unless
> the module is imported into the current session. This is a known issue. To get **About** articles
> in a module, import the module, either by using the `Import-Module` cmdlet or by running a cmdlet
> that's included in the module.

## EXAMPLES

### Example 1: Display basic help information about a cmdlet

These examples display basic help information about the `Format-Table` cmdlet.

```powershell
Get-Help Format-Table
Get-Help -Name Format-Table
Format-Table -?
```

`Get-Help <cmdlet-name>` is the simplest and default syntax of `Get-Help` cmdlet. You can omit the
**Name** parameter.

The syntax `<cmdlet-name> -?` works only for cmdlets.

### Example 2: Display basic information one page at a time

These examples display basic help information about the `Format-Table` cmdlet one page at a time.

```powershell
help Format-Table
man Format-Table
Get-Help Format-Table | Out-Host -Paging
```

`help` is a function that runs `Get-Help` cmdlet internally and displays the result one page at a
time.

`man` is an alias for the `help` function.

`Get-Help Format-Table` sends the object down the pipeline. `Out-Host -Paging` receives the output
from the pipeline and displays it one page at a time. For more information, see [Out-Host](Out-Host.md).

### Example 3: Display more information for a cmdlet

These examples display more detailed help information about the `Format-Table` cmdlet.

```powershell
Get-Help Format-Table -Detailed
Get-Help Format-Table -Full
```

The **Detailed** parameter displays the help article's detailed view that includes parameter
descriptions and examples.

The **Full** parameter displays the help article's full view that includes parameter descriptions,
examples, input and output object types, and additional notes.

The **Detailed** and **Full** parameters are effective only for the commands that have help files
installed on the computer. The parameters aren't effective for the conceptual (**about_**) help
articles.

### Example 4: Display selected parts of a cmdlet by using parameters

These examples display selected portions of the `Format-Table` cmdlet help.

```powershell
Get-Help Format-Table -Examples
Get-Help Format-Table -Parameter *
Get-Help Format-Table -Parameter GroupBy
```

The **Examples** parameter displays the help file's **NAME** and **SYNOPSIS** sections, and all the
Examples. You can't specify an Example number because the **Examples** parameter is a switch
parameter.

The **Parameter** parameter displays only the descriptions of the specified parameters. If you
specify only the asterisk (`*`) wildcard character, it displays the descriptions of all parameters.
When **Parameter** specifies a parameter name such as **GroupBy**, information about that parameter
is shown.

These parameters aren't effective for the conceptual (**about_**) help articles.

### Example 5: Display online version of help

This example displays the online version of the help article for the `Format-Table` cmdlet in your
default web browser.

```powershell
Get-Help Format-Table -Online
```

### Example 6: Display help about the help system

The `Get-Help` cmdlet without parameters displays information about the PowerShell help system.

```powershell
Get-Help
```

### Example 7: Display available help articles

This example displays a list of all help articles available on your computer.

```powershell
Get-Help *
```

### Example 8: Display a list of conceptual articles

This example displays a list of the conceptual articles included in PowerShell help. All these
articles begin with the characters **about_**. To display a particular help file, type
`Get-Help \<about_article-name\>`, for example, `Get-Help about_Signing`.

Only the conceptual articles that have help files installed on your computer are displayed. For
information about downloading and installing help files in PowerShell 3.0, see [Update-Help](Update-Help.md).

```powershell
Get-Help about_*
```

### Example 9: Search for a word in cmdlet help

This example shows how to search for a word in a cmdlet help article.

```powershell
Get-Help Add-Member -Full | Out-String -Stream | Select-String -Pattern Clixml
```

```Output
the Export-Clixml cmdlet to save the instance of the object, including the additional members...
can use the Import-Clixml cmdlet to re-create the instance of the object from the information...
Export-Clixml
Import-Clixml
```

`Get-Help` uses the **Full** parameter to get help information for `Add-Member`. The
**MamlCommandHelpInfo** object is sent down the pipeline. `Out-String` uses the **Stream** parameter
to convert the object into a string. `Select-String` uses the **Pattern** parameter to search the
string for **Clixml**.

### Example 10: Display a list of articles that include a word

This example displays a list of articles that include the word **remoting**.

When you enter a word that doesn't appear in any article title, `Get-Help` displays a list of
articles that include that word.

```powershell
Get-Help -Name remoting
```

```Output
Name                              Category  Module                    Synopsis
----                              --------  ------                    --------
Install-PowerShellRemoting.ps1    External                            Install-PowerShellRemoting.ps1
Disable-PSRemoting                Cmdlet    Microsoft.PowerShell.Core Prevents remote users...
Enable-PSRemoting                 Cmdlet    Microsoft.PowerShell.Core Configures the computer...
```

### Example 11: Display provider-specific help

This example shows two ways of getting the provider-specific help for `Get-Item`. These commands get
help that explains how to use the `Get-Item` cmdlet in the PowerShell SQL Server provider's
**DataCollection** node.

The first example uses the `Get-Help` **Path** parameter to specify the SQL Server provider's path.
Because the provider's path is specified, you can run the command from any path location.

The second example uses `Set-Location` to navigate to the SQL Server provider's path. From that
location, the **Path** parameter isn't needed for `Get-Help` to get the provider-specific help.

```powershell
Get-Help Get-Item -Path SQLSERVER:\DataCollection
```

```Output
NAME

    Get-Item

SYNOPSIS

    Gets a collection of Server objects for the local computer and any computers

    to which you have made a SQL Server PowerShell connection.
    ...
```

```powershell
Set-Location SQLSERVER:\DataCollection
SQLSERVER:\DataCollection> Get-Help Get-Item
```

```Output
NAME

    Get-Item

SYNOPSIS

    Gets a collection of Server objects for the local computer and any computers

    to which you have made a SQL Server PowerShell connection.
    ...
```

### Example 12: Display help for a script

This example gets help for the `MyScript.ps1 script`. For information about how to write help for
your functions and scripts, see [about_Comment_Based_Help](./About/about_Comment_Based_Help.md).

```powershell
Get-Help -Name C:\PS-Test\MyScript.ps1
```

## PARAMETERS

### -Category

Displays help only for items in the specified category and their aliases. Conceptual articles are in
the **HelpFile** category.

The acceptable values for this parameter are as follows:

- Alias
- Cmdlet
- Provider
- General
- FAQ
- Glossary
- HelpFile
- ScriptCommand
- Function
- Filter
- ExternalScript
- All
- DefaultHelp
- Workflow
- DscResource
- Class
- Configuration

```yaml
Type: System.String[]
Parameter Sets: (All)
Aliases:
Accepted values: Alias, Cmdlet, Provider, General, FAQ, Glossary, HelpFile, ScriptCommand, Function, Filter, ExternalScript, All, DefaultHelp, Workflow, DscResource, Class, Configuration

Required: False
Position: Named
Default value: None
Accept pipeline input: False
Accept wildcard characters: False
```

### -Component

Displays commands with the specified component value, such as **Exchange**. Enter a component name.
Wildcard characters are permitted. This parameter has no effect on displays of conceptual
(**About_**) help.

```yaml
Type: System.String[]
Parameter Sets: (All)
Aliases:

Required: False
Position: Named
Default value: None
Accept pipeline input: False
Accept wildcard characters: True
```

### -Detailed

Adds parameter descriptions and examples to the basic help display. This parameter is effective only
when the help files are installed on the computer. It has no effect on displays of conceptual
(**About_**) help.

```yaml
Type: System.Management.Automation.SwitchParameter
Parameter Sets: DetailedView
Aliases:

Required: True
Position: Named
Default value: False
Accept pipeline input: False
Accept wildcard characters: False
```

### -Examples

Displays only the name, synopsis, and examples. To display only the examples, type
`(Get-Help \<cmdlet-name\>).Examples`.

This parameter is effective only when the help files are installed on the computer. It has no effect
on displays of conceptual (**About_**) help.

```yaml
Type: System.Management.Automation.SwitchParameter
Parameter Sets: Examples
Aliases:

Required: True
Position: Named
Default value: False
Accept pipeline input: False
Accept wildcard characters: False
```

### -Full

Displays the entire help article for a cmdlet. **Full** includes parameter descriptions and
attributes, examples, input and output object types, and additional notes.

This parameter is effective only when the help files are installed on the computer. It has no effect
on displays of conceptual (**About_**) help.

```yaml
Type: System.Management.Automation.SwitchParameter
Parameter Sets: AllUsersView
Aliases:

Required: False
Position: Named
Default value: False
Accept pipeline input: False
Accept wildcard characters: False
```

### -Functionality

Displays help for items with the specified functionality. Enter the functionality. Wildcard
characters are permitted. This parameter has no effect on displays of conceptual (**About_**) help.

```yaml
Type: System.String[]
Parameter Sets: (All)
Aliases:

Required: False
Position: Named
Default value: None
Accept pipeline input: False
Accept wildcard characters: True
```

### -Name

Gets help about the specified command or concept. Enter the name of a cmdlet, function, provider,
script, or workflow, such as `Get-Member`, a conceptual article name, such as `about_Objects`, or an
alias, such as `ls`. Wildcard characters are permitted in cmdlet and provider names, but you can't
use wildcard characters to find the names of function help and script help articles.

To get help for a script that isn't located in a path that's listed in the `$env:Path` environment
variable, type the script's path and file name.

If you enter the exact name of a help article, `Get-Help` displays the article contents.

If you enter a word or word pattern that appears in several help article titles, `Get-Help` displays
a list of the matching titles.

If you enter any text that doesn't match any help article titles, `Get-Help` displays a list of
articles that include that text in their contents.

The names of conceptual articles, such as `about_Objects`, must be entered in English, even in
non-English versions of PowerShell.

```yaml
Type: System.String
Parameter Sets: (All)
Aliases:

Required: False
Position: 0
Default value: None
Accept pipeline input: True (ByPropertyName)
Accept wildcard characters: True
```

### -Online

Displays the online version of a help article in the default browser. This parameter is valid only
for cmdlet, function, workflow, and script help articles. You can't use the **Online** parameter
with `Get-Help` in a remote session.

For information about supporting this feature in help articles that you write, see [about_Comment_Based_Help](./About/about_Comment_Based_Help.md),
and [Supporting Online Help](/powershell/scripting/developer/module/supporting-online-help), and
[Writing Help for PowerShell Cmdlets](/powershell/scripting/developer/help/writing-help-for-windows-powershell-cmdlets).

```yaml
Type: System.Management.Automation.SwitchParameter
Parameter Sets: Online
Aliases:

Required: True
Position: Named
Default value: False
Accept pipeline input: False
Accept wildcard characters: False
```

### -Parameter

Displays only the detailed descriptions of the specified parameters. Wildcards are permitted. This
parameter has no effect on displays of conceptual (**About_**) help.

```yaml
Type: System.String[]
Parameter Sets: Parameters
Aliases:

Required: True
Position: Named
Default value: None
Accept pipeline input: False
Accept wildcard characters: True
```

### -Path

Gets help that explains how the cmdlet works in the specified provider path. Enter a PowerShell
provider path.

This parameter gets a customized version of a cmdlet help article that explains how the cmdlet works
in the specified PowerShell provider path. This parameter is effective only for help about a
provider cmdlet and only when the provider includes a custom version of the provider cmdlet help
article in its help file. To use this parameter, install the help file for the module that includes
the provider.

To see the custom cmdlet help for a provider path, go to the provider path location and enter a
`Get-Help` command or, from any path location, use the **Path** parameter of `Get-Help` to specify
the provider path. You can also find custom cmdlet help online in the provider help section of the
help articles.

For more information about PowerShell providers, see [about_Providers](./About/about_Providers.md).

```yaml
Type: System.String
Parameter Sets: (All)
Aliases:

Required: False
Position: Named
Default value: None
Accept pipeline input: False
Accept wildcard characters: True
```

### -Role

Displays help customized for the specified user role. Enter a role. Wildcard characters are
permitted.

Enter the role that the user plays in an organization. Some cmdlets display different text in their
help files based on the value of this parameter. This parameter has no effect on help for the core
cmdlets.

```yaml
Type: System.String[]
Parameter Sets: (All)
Aliases:

Required: False
Position: Named
Default value: None
Accept pipeline input: False
Accept wildcard characters: True
```

### -ShowWindow

Displays the help topic in a window for easier reading. The window includes a **Find** search
feature and a **Settings** box that lets you set options for the display, including options to
display only selected sections of a help topic.

The **ShowWindow** parameter supports help topics for commands (cmdlets, functions, CIM commands,
scripts) and conceptual **About** articles. It does not support provider help.

This parameter was reintroduced in PowerShell 7.0.

```yaml
Type: System.Management.Automation.SwitchParameter
Parameter Sets: ShowWindow
Aliases:

Required: True
Position: Named
Default value: False
Accept pipeline input: False
Accept wildcard characters: False
```

### CommonParameters

This cmdlet supports the common parameters: -Debug, -ErrorAction, -ErrorVariable,
-InformationAction, -InformationVariable, -OutVariable, -OutBuffer, -PipelineVariable, -Verbose,
-WarningAction, and -WarningVariable. For more information, see [about_CommonParameters](https://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?LinkID=113216).

## INPUTS

### None

You can't send objects down the pipeline to `Get-Help`.

## OUTPUTS

### ExtendedCmdletHelpInfo

If you run `Get-Help` on a command that doesn't have a help file, `Get-Help` returns an
**ExtendedCmdletHelpInfo** object that represents autogenerated help.

### System.String

If you get a conceptual help article, `Get-Help` returns it as a string.

### MamlCommandHelpInfo

If you get a command that has a help file, `Get-Help` returns a **MamlCommandHelpInfo** object.

## NOTES

PowerShell 3.0 doesn't include help files. To download and install the help files that `Get-Help`
reads, use the `Update-Help` cmdlet. You can use the `Update-Help` cmdlet to download and install
help files for the core commands that come with PowerShell and for any modules that you install. You
can also use it to update the help files so that the help on your computer is never outdated.

You can also read the help articles about the commands that come with PowerShell online starting at
[Getting Started with Windows PowerShell](/powershell/scripting/getting-started/getting-started-with-windows-powershell).

`Get-Help` displays help in the locale set for the Windows operating system or in the fallback
language for that locale. If you don't have help files for the primary or fallback locale,
`Get-Help` behaves as if there are no help files on the computer. To get help for a different
locale, use **Region** and **Language** in Control Panel to change the settings. On Windows 10,
**Settings**, **Time & Language**.

The full view of help includes a table of information about the parameters. The table includes the
following fields:

- **Required**. Indicates whether the parameter is required (true) or optional (false).

- **Position**. Indicates whether the parameter is named or positional (numeric). Positional
  parameters must appear in a specified place in the command.

- **Named** indicates that the parameter name is required, but that the parameter can appear
  anywhere in the command.

- **Numeric** indicates that the parameter name is optional, but when the name is omitted, the
  parameter must be in the place specified by the number. For example, `2` indicates that when the
  parameter name is omitted, the parameter must be the second or only unnamed parameter in the
  command. When the parameter name is used, the parameter can appear anywhere in the command.

- **Default value**. The parameter value or default behavior that PowerShell uses if you don't
  include the parameter in the command.

- Accepts pipeline input. Indicates whether you can (true) or can't (false) send objects to the
  parameter through a pipeline. **By Property Name** means that the pipelined object must have a
  property that has the same name as the parameter name.

- **Accepts wildcard characters**. Indicates whether the value of a parameter can include wildcard
  characters, such as an asterisk (`*`) or question mark (`?`).

## RELATED LINKS

[about_Command_Syntax](About/about_Command_Syntax.md)

[about_Comment_Based_Help](./About/about_Comment_Based_Help.md)

[Get-Command](Get-Command.md)

[Supporting Updatable Help](/powershell/scripting/developer/module/supporting-updatable-help)

[Update-Help](Update-Help.md)

[Writing Comment-Based Help Topics](/powershell/scripting/developer/help/writing-comment-based-help-topics)

[Writing Help for PowerShell Cmdlets](/powershell/scripting/developer/help/writing-help-for-windows-powershell-cmdlets)

