---
ms.date:  2017-06-09
schema:  2.0.0
locale:  en-us
keywords:  powershell,cmdlet
online version:  http://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/p/?linkid=289800
external help file:  Microsoft.PowerShell.Commands.Management.dll-Help.xml
title:  Clear-Item
---

# Clear-Item

## SYNOPSIS
Deletes the contents of an item, but does not delete the item.

## SYNTAX

### Path (Default)
```
Clear-Item [-Path] <String[]> [-Force] [-Filter <String>] [-Include <String[]>] [-Exclude <String[]>]
 [-Credential <PSCredential>] [-WhatIf] [-Confirm] [-UseTransaction] [<CommonParameters>]
```

### LiteralPath
```
Clear-Item -LiteralPath <String[]> [-Force] [-Filter <String>] [-Include <String[]>] [-Exclude <String[]>]
 [-Credential <PSCredential>] [-WhatIf] [-Confirm] [-UseTransaction] [<CommonParameters>]
```

## DESCRIPTION
The Clear-Item cmdlet deletes the value of an item, but it does not delete the item.
For example, Clear-Item can delete the value of a variable, but it does not delete the variable.
The value that used to represent a cleared item is defined by each Windows PowerShell provider. 
Clear-Item is similar to Clear-Content, but it works on aliases and variables, instead of files.

## EXAMPLES

### Example 1
```
PS C:\> Clear-Item Variable:TestVar1
-or-
PS C:> Set-location Variable:PS Variable:\> Clear-Item Testvar1
```

This command deletes the value of the variable, Testvar1.
The variable remains and is valid, but its value is set to null.
The variable name is prefixed with "Variable:" to indicate the Windows PowerShell Variable provider.

The alternate commands show that, to get the same result, you can switch to the Windows PowerShell Variable: drive and then run the Clear-Item command.

### Example 2
```
PS C:\> Clear-Item Alias:log* -Include *1* -Exclude *3* -Whatif
What if: Performing operation "Clear Item" on Target "Item: log1".
```

This command asks Windows PowerShell what would happen if you executed the command, "`clear-item alias:log* -include *1* -exclude *3`".
In response, Windows PowerShell explains that it would delete the value of the log1 alias, but the command would not have any effect on the log, log2, or log13 aliases.
Because the Alias provider does not permit an alias without a value, when you clear an alias, you also delete the alias.

### Example 3
```
PS C:\> Clear-Item HKLM:\Software\MyCompany\MyKey -Confirm
```

This command deletes all registry entries in the MyKey subkey, but only after prompting you to confirm your intent.
It does not delete the MyKey subkey or affect any other registry keys or entries.
You can use the **Include** and **Exclude** parameters to identify particular registry keys, but you cannot use them to identify registry entries.
To delete particular registry entries, use the Remove-ItemProperty cmdlet.
To delete the value of a registry entry, use the Clear-ItemPropertycmdlet.

## PARAMETERS

### -Credential
Specifies a user account that has permission to perform this action.
The default is the current user.

Type a user name, such as "User01" or "Domain01\User01", or enter a PSCredential object, such as one generated by the Get-Credential cmdlet.
If you type a user name, you will be prompted for a password.

This parameter is not supported by any providers installed with Windows PowerShell.

```yaml
Type: PSCredential
Parameter Sets: (All)
Aliases: 

Required: False
Position: Named
Default value: Current user
Accept pipeline input: True (ByPropertyName)
Accept wildcard characters: False
```

### -Exclude
Omits the specified items.
The value of this parameter qualifies the Path parameter.
Enter a path element or pattern, such as "*.txt".
Wildcards are permitted.

```yaml
Type: String[]
Parameter Sets: (All)
Aliases: 

Required: False
Position: Named
Default value: None
Accept pipeline input: False
Accept wildcard characters: True
```

### -Filter
Specifies a filter in the provider's format or language.
The value of this parameter qualifies the Path parameter.
The syntax of the filter, including the use of wildcards, depends on the provider.
Filters are more efficient than other parameters, because the provider applies them when retrieving the objects, rather than having Windows PowerShell filter the objects after they are retrieved.

```yaml
Type: String
Parameter Sets: (All)
Aliases: 

Required: False
Position: Named
Default value: None
Accept pipeline input: False
Accept wildcard characters: True
```

### -Force
Allows the cmdlet to clear items that cannot otherwise be changed, such as read- only aliases.
The cmdlet cannot clear constants.
Implementation varies from provider to provider.
For more information, see about_Providers.
Even using the Force parameter, the cmdlet cannot override security restrictions.

```yaml
Type: SwitchParameter
Parameter Sets: (All)
Aliases: 

Required: False
Position: Named
Default value: False
Accept pipeline input: False
Accept wildcard characters: False
```

### -Include
Clears only the specified items.
The value of this parameter qualifies the Path parameter.
Enter a path element or pattern, such as "*.txt".
Wildcards are permitted.

```yaml
Type: String[]
Parameter Sets: (All)
Aliases: 

Required: False
Position: Named
Default value: None
Accept pipeline input: False
Accept wildcard characters: True
```

### -LiteralPath
Specifies the path to the items being cleared.
Unlike Path, the value of LiteralPath is used exactly as it is typed.
No characters are interpreted as wildcards.
If the path includes escape characters, enclose it in single quotation marks.
Single quotation marks tell Windows PowerShell not to interpret any characters as escape sequences.

```yaml
Type: String[]
Parameter Sets: LiteralPath
Aliases: PSPath

Required: True
Position: Named
Default value: None
Accept pipeline input: True (ByPropertyName)
Accept wildcard characters: False
```

### -Path
Specifies the path to the items being cleared.
Wildcards are permitted.
This parameter is required, but the parameter name ("Path") is optional.

```yaml
Type: String[]
Parameter Sets: Path
Aliases: 

Required: True
Position: 1
Default value: None
Accept pipeline input: True (ByPropertyName, ByValue)
Accept wildcard characters: True
```

### -Confirm
Prompts you for confirmation before running the cmdlet.

```yaml
Type: SwitchParameter
Parameter Sets: (All)
Aliases: cf

Required: False
Position: Named
Default value: False
Accept pipeline input: False
Accept wildcard characters: False
```

### -WhatIf
Shows what would happen if the cmdlet runs.
The cmdlet is not run.

```yaml
Type: SwitchParameter
Parameter Sets: (All)
Aliases: wi

Required: False
Position: Named
Default value: False
Accept pipeline input: False
Accept wildcard characters: False
```

### -UseTransaction
Includes the command in the active transaction.
This parameter is valid only when a transaction is in progress.
For more information, see about_Transactions.

```yaml
Type: SwitchParameter
Parameter Sets: (All)
Aliases: usetx

Required: False
Position: Named
Default value: False
Accept pipeline input: False
Accept wildcard characters: False
```

### CommonParameters
This cmdlet supports the common parameters: -Debug, -ErrorAction, -ErrorVariable, -InformationAction, -InformationVariable, -OutVariable, -OutBuffer, -PipelineVariable, -Verbose, -WarningAction, and -WarningVariable. For more information, see about_CommonParameters (http://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?LinkID=113216).

## INPUTS

### System.String
You can pipe a path string to Clear-Item.

## OUTPUTS

### None
This cmdlet does not return any objects.

## NOTES
* The Clear-Item cmdlet is supported only by several Windows PowerShell providers, including the Alias, Environment, Function, Registry, and Variable providers. As such, you can use Clear-Item to delete the content of items in the provider namespaces.

  You cannot use Clear-Item to delete the contents of a file, because the Windows PowerShell FileSystem provider does not support this cmdlet.
To clear files, use Clear-Content.

  You can also refer to Clear-Item by its built-in alias, "cli".
For more information, type "get-help about_Aliases".

  The Clear-Item cmdlet is designed to work with the data exposed by any provider.
To list the providers available in your session, type "Get-PsProvider".
For more information, see about_Providers.

*

## RELATED LINKS

[Copy-Item](Copy-Item.md)

[Get-Item](Get-Item.md)

[Invoke-Item](Invoke-Item.md)

[Move-Item](Move-Item.md)

[New-Item](New-Item.md)

[Remove-Item](Remove-Item.md)

[Rename-Item](Rename-Item.md)

[Set-Item](Set-Item.md)

[about_Providers](../Microsoft.PowerShell.Core/About/about_Providers.md)


