---
ms.date:  2017-06-09
schema:  2.0.0
locale:  en-us
keywords:  powershell,cmdlet
online version:  http://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/p/?linkid=290494
external help file:  Microsoft.PowerShell.Commands.Management.dll-Help.xml
title:  Get-HotFix
---

# Get-HotFix

## SYNOPSIS
Gets the hotfixes that have been applied to the local and remote computers.

## SYNTAX

### Default (Default)
```
Get-HotFix [[-Id] <String[]>] [-ComputerName <String[]>] [-Credential <PSCredential>] [<CommonParameters>]
```

### Description
```
Get-HotFix [-Description <String[]>] [-ComputerName <String[]>] [-Credential <PSCredential>]
 [<CommonParameters>]
```

## DESCRIPTION
The Get-Hotfix cmdlet gets hotfixes (also called updates) that have been installed on either the local computer (or on specified remote computers) by Windows Update, Microsoft Update, or Windows Server Update Services; the cmdlet also gets hotfixes or updates that have been installed manually by users.

## EXAMPLES

### Example 1
```
PS C:\> get-hotfix
```

This command gets all hotfixes on the local computer.

### Example 2
```
PS C:\> get-hotfix -description Security* -computername Server01, Server02 -cred Server01\admin01
```

This command gets all hotfixes on the Server01 and Server02 computers that have a description that begins with "Security".

### Example 3
```
PS C:\> $a = get-content servers.txt
PS C:\> $a | foreach { if (!(get-hotfix -id KB957095 -computername $_)) { add-content $_ -path Missing-kb953631.txt }}
```

The commands in this example create a text file listing the names of computers that are missing a security update.

The commands use the Get-Hotfix cmdlet to get the KB957095 security update on all of the computers whose names are listed in the Servers.txt file.

If a computer does not have the update, the Add-Content cmdlet writes the computer name in the Missing-KB953631.txt file.

### Example 4
```
PS C:\> (get-hotfix | sort installedon)[-1]
```

This command gets the most recent hotfix on the computer.

It gets the hotfixes, sorts them by the value of the InstalledOn property, and then it uses array notation to select the last item in the array.

## PARAMETERS

### -ComputerName
Specifies a remote computer.
The default is the local computer.

Type the NetBIOS name, an Internet Protocol (IP) address, or a fully qualified domain name of a remote computer.

This parameter does not rely on Windows PowerShell remoting.
You can use the ComputerName parameter of Get-Hotfix even if your computer is not configured to run remote commands.

```yaml
Type: String[]
Parameter Sets: (All)
Aliases: CN, __Server, IPAddress

Required: False
Position: Named
Default value: Local computer
Accept pipeline input: True (ByPropertyName)
Accept wildcard characters: False
```

### -Credential
Specifies a user account that has permission to perform this action.
The default is the current user.

Type a user name, such as "User01" or "Domain01\User01", or enter a PSCredential object, such as one generated by the Get-Credential cmdlet.
If you type a user name, you will be prompted for a password.

```yaml
Type: PSCredential
Parameter Sets: (All)
Aliases: 

Required: False
Position: Named
Default value: Current user
Accept pipeline input: False
Accept wildcard characters: False
```

### -Description
Gets only hotfixes with the specified descriptions.
Wildcards are permitted.
The default is all hotfixes on the computer.

```yaml
Type: String[]
Parameter Sets: Description
Aliases: 

Required: False
Position: Named
Default value: All hotfixes
Accept pipeline input: False
Accept wildcard characters: True
```

### -Id
Gets only hotfixes with the specified hotfix IDs.
The default is all hotfixes on the computer.

```yaml
Type: String[]
Parameter Sets: Default
Aliases: HFID

Required: False
Position: 1
Default value: All hotfixes
Accept pipeline input: False
Accept wildcard characters: False
```

### CommonParameters
This cmdlet supports the common parameters: -Debug, -ErrorAction, -ErrorVariable, -InformationAction, -InformationVariable, -OutVariable, -OutBuffer, -PipelineVariable, -Verbose, -WarningAction, and -WarningVariable. For more information, see about_CommonParameters (http://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?LinkID=113216).

## INPUTS

### None
You cannot pipe input to Get-HotFix.

## OUTPUTS

### System.Management.ManagementObject#root\CIMV2\Win32_QuickFixEngineering
Get-Hotfix returns objects that represent the hotfixes on the computer.

## NOTES
* This cmdlet uses the Win32_QuickFixEngineering WMI class, which represents small system-wide updates of the operating system. Starting with Windows Vista, this class returns only the updates supplied by Microsoft Windows Installer (MSI), Windows Update, Microsoft Update, or Windows Server Update Services. It does not include updates that are supplied by Component Based Servicing (CBS), or other non-hotfix programs or apps. For more information, see [Win32_QuickFixEngineering class](https://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?LinkID=145071) in the MSDN library.

  The output of this cmdlet might be different on different operating systems.

## RELATED LINKS

[Get-ComputerRestorePoint](Get-ComputerRestorePoint.md)

