---
external help file: Microsoft.PowerShell.Commands.Management.dll-Help.xml
keywords: powershell,cmdlet
locale: en-us
ms.date: 06/09/2017
online version: https://docs.microsoft.com/powershell/module/microsoft.powershell.management/reset-computermachinepassword?view=powershell-3.0&WT.mc_id=ps-gethelp
schema: 2.0.0
title: Reset-ComputerMachinePassword
---

# Reset-ComputerMachinePassword
## SYNOPSIS
Resets the machine account password for the computer.
## SYNTAX

```
Reset-ComputerMachinePassword [-Server <String>] [-Credential <PSCredential>] [-WhatIf] [-Confirm]
 [<CommonParameters>]
```

## DESCRIPTION
The Reset-ComputerMachinePassword cmdlet changes the machine account password that the computers use to authenticate to the domain controllers in the domain.
You can use it to reset the password of the local computer.
## EXAMPLES

### Example 1
```
PS C:\> Reset-ComputerMachinePassword
```

This command resets the machine password for the local computer.
The command runs with the credentials of the current user.
### Example 2
```
PS C:\> Reset-ComputerMachinePassword -Server DC01 -Credential Domain01\Admin01
```

This command resets the machine password of the local computer using the DC01 domain controller.
It uses the **Credential** parameter to specify a user account that has permission to reset a machine password in the domain.
### Example 3
```
PS C:\> Invoke-Command -ComputerName Server01 -ScriptBlock {Reset-ComputerMachinePassword}
```

This command uses theInvoke-Command cmdlet to run a **Reset-ComputerMachinePassword** command on the Server01 remote computer.

For more information about remote commands in Windows PowerShell, see about_Remote and **Invoke-Command**.
## PARAMETERS

### -Credential
Specifies a user account that has permission in the domain to reset the computer's machine password.
The default is the current user.

Type a user name, such as "User01" or "Domain01\User01", or enter a **PSCredential** object, such as one generated by the Get-Credential cmdlet.
If you type a user name, you will be prompted for a password.

This parameter is introduced in Windows PowerShell 3.0.

```yaml
Type: PSCredential
Parameter Sets: (All)
Aliases:

Required: False
Position: Named
Default value: Current user
Accept pipeline input: False
Accept wildcard characters: False
```

### -Server
Specifies the name of a domain controller to use when setting the machine account password.

This parameter is optional.
If you omit this parameter, a domain controller is chosen to service the command.

```yaml
Type: String
Parameter Sets: (All)
Aliases:

Required: False
Position: Named
Default value: None
Accept pipeline input: False
Accept wildcard characters: False
```

### -Confirm
Prompts you for confirmation before running the cmdlet.

```yaml
Type: SwitchParameter
Parameter Sets: (All)
Aliases: cf

Required: False
Position: Named
Default value: False
Accept pipeline input: False
Accept wildcard characters: False
```

### -WhatIf
Shows what would happen if the cmdlet runs.
The cmdlet is not run.

```yaml
Type: SwitchParameter
Parameter Sets: (All)
Aliases: wi

Required: False
Position: Named
Default value: False
Accept pipeline input: False
Accept wildcard characters: False
```

### CommonParameters
This cmdlet supports the common parameters: -Debug, -ErrorAction, -ErrorVariable, -InformationAction, -InformationVariable, -OutVariable, -OutBuffer, -PipelineVariable, -Verbose, -WarningAction, and -WarningVariable. For more information, see [about_CommonParameters](https://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?LinkID=113216).
## INPUTS

### None
You cannot pipe input to this cmdlet.
## OUTPUTS

### None
This cmdlet does not generate any output.
## NOTES

## RELATED LINKS


