---
ms.date:  2017-06-09
schema:  2.0.0
locale:  en-us
keywords:  powershell,cmdlet
online version:  http://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?LinkID=113404
external help file:  Microsoft.PowerShell.Commands.Management.dll-Help.xml
title:  Split-Path
---

# Split-Path
## SYNOPSIS
Returns the specified part of a path.
## SYNTAX

### ParentSet (Default)
```
Split-Path [-Path] <String[]> [-Parent] [-Resolve] [-Credential <PSCredential>] [-UseTransaction]
 [<CommonParameters>]
```

### IsAbsoluteSet
```
Split-Path [-Path] <String[]> [-Resolve] [-IsAbsolute] [-Credential <PSCredential>] [-UseTransaction]
 [<CommonParameters>]
```

### LeafSet
```
Split-Path [-Path] <String[]> [-Leaf] [-Resolve] [-Credential <PSCredential>] [-UseTransaction]
 [<CommonParameters>]
```

### QualifierSet
```
Split-Path [-Path] <String[]> [-Qualifier] [-Resolve] [-Credential <PSCredential>] [-UseTransaction]
 [<CommonParameters>]
```

### NoQualifierSet
```
Split-Path [-Path] <String[]> [-NoQualifier] [-Resolve] [-Credential <PSCredential>] [-UseTransaction]
 [<CommonParameters>]
```

### LiteralPathSet
```
Split-Path -LiteralPath <String[]> [-Resolve] [-Credential <PSCredential>] [-UseTransaction]
 [<CommonParameters>]
```

## DESCRIPTION
The Split-Path cmdlet returns only the specified part of a path, such as the parent directory, a child directory, or a file name.
It can also get items that are referenced by the split path and tell whether the path is relative or absolute.

You can use this cmdlet to get or submit only a selected part of a path.
## EXAMPLES

### Example 1
```
PS C:\> split-path "HKCU:\Software\Microsoft" -qualifier
HKCU:
```

This command returns only the qualifier (the drive) of the path.
### Example 2
```
PS C:\> split-path "C:\Test\Logs\*.log" -leaf -resolve
Pass1.log
Pass2.log
...
```

This command displays the files that are referenced by the split path.
Because this path is split to the last item (the "leaf"), only the file names of the paths are displayed.

The Resolve parameter tells Split-Path to display the items that the split path references, instead of displaying the split path.

Like all Split-Path commands, this command returns strings.
It does not return FileInfo Objects representing the files.
### Example 3
```
PS C:\> split-path "C:\WINDOWS\system32\WindowsPowerShell\V1.0\about_*.txt"
C:\WINDOWS\system32\WindowsPowerShell\V1.0
```

This command returns only the parent containers of the path.
Because it does not include any parameters to specify the split, Split-Path uses the split location default, which is Parent.
### Example 4
```
PS C:\> split-path ".\My Pictures\*.jpg" -IsAbsolute
False
```

This command determines whether the path is relative or absolute.
In this case, because the path is relative to the current directory, which is represented by a dot (.), it returns FALSE ($false).
### Example 5
```
PS C:\> set-location (split-path $profile)
PS C:\Documents and Settings\User01\My Documents\WindowsPowerShell>
```

This command changes your location to the directory that contains the Windows PowerShell profile.

The command in parentheses uses the Split-Path cmdlet to return only the parent of the path stored in the built-in $Profile variable.
(The Parent parameter is the default split location parameter, so you can omit it from the command.) The parentheses direct Windows PowerShell to run the command first.
This is a handy way to navigate to a directory with a long path name.
### Example 6
```
PS C:\> 'C:\Documents and Settings\User01\My Documents\My Pictures' | split-path
C:\Documents and Settings\User01\My Documents
```

This command uses a pipeline operator (|) to send a path to the Split-Path cmdlet.
The path is enclosed in quotation marks to indicate that it is a single token.
## PARAMETERS

### -Credential
Specifies a user account that has permission to perform this action.
The default is the current user.

Type a user name, such as "User01" or "Domain01\User01".
Or, enter a PSCredential object, such as one generated by the Get-Credential cmdlet.
If you type a user name, you will be prompted for a password.

This parameter is not supported by any providers installed with Windows PowerShell.

```yaml
Type: PSCredential
Parameter Sets: (All)
Aliases: 

Required: False
Position: Named
Default value: Current user
Accept pipeline input: True (ByPropertyName)
Accept wildcard characters: False
```

### -IsAbsolute
Returns TRUE ($True) if the path is absolute and FALSE ($False) if it is relative.
An absolute path has a length greater than zero and does not use a dot ( .
) to indicate the current path.

```yaml
Type: SwitchParameter
Parameter Sets: IsAbsoluteSet
Aliases: 

Required: False
Position: Named
Default value: False
Accept pipeline input: False
Accept wildcard characters: False
```

### -Leaf
Returns only the last item or container in the path.
For example, in the path "C:\Test\Logs\Pass1.log", it returns only "Pass1.log".

```yaml
Type: SwitchParameter
Parameter Sets: LeafSet
Aliases: 

Required: False
Position: Named
Default value: False
Accept pipeline input: True (ByPropertyName)
Accept wildcard characters: False
```

### -LiteralPath
Specifies the paths to be split.
Unlike Path, the value of LiteralPath is used exactly as it is typed.
No characters are interpreted as wildcards.
If the path includes escape characters, enclose it in single quotation marks.
Single quotation marks tell Windows PowerShell not to interpret any characters as escape sequences.

```yaml
Type: String[]
Parameter Sets: LiteralPathSet
Aliases: PSPath

Required: True
Position: Named
Default value: None
Accept pipeline input: True (ByPropertyName)
Accept wildcard characters: False
```

### -NoQualifier
Returns the path without the qualifier.
For the FileSystem or registry providers, the qualifier is the drive of the provider path, such as C: or HKCU:.
For example, in the path  "C:\Test\Logs\Pass1.log", it returns only "\Test\Logs\Pass1.log".

```yaml
Type: SwitchParameter
Parameter Sets: NoQualifierSet
Aliases: 

Required: False
Position: Named
Default value: False
Accept pipeline input: True (ByPropertyName)
Accept wildcard characters: False
```

### -Parent
Returns only the parent containers of the item or of the container specified by the path.
For example, in the path "C:\Test\Logs\Pass1.log", it returns "C:\Test\Logs".
The Parent parameter is the default split location parameter.

```yaml
Type: SwitchParameter
Parameter Sets: ParentSet
Aliases: 

Required: False
Position: Named
Default value: True
Accept pipeline input: True (ByPropertyName)
Accept wildcard characters: False
```

### -Path
Specifies the paths to be split.
Wildcards are permitted.
If the path includes spaces, enclose it in quotation marks.
You can also pipe a path to Split-Path.

```yaml
Type: String[]
Parameter Sets: ParentSet, IsAbsoluteSet, LeafSet, QualifierSet, NoQualifierSet
Aliases: 

Required: True
Position: 1
Default value: None
Accept pipeline input: True (ByPropertyName, ByValue)
Accept wildcard characters: True
```

### -Qualifier
Returns only the qualifier of the specified path.
For the FileSystem or registry providers, the qualifier is the drive of the provider path, such as C: or HKCU:.

```yaml
Type: SwitchParameter
Parameter Sets: QualifierSet
Aliases: 

Required: False
Position: 2
Default value: False
Accept pipeline input: True (ByPropertyName)
Accept wildcard characters: False
```

### -Resolve
Displays the items that are referenced by the resulting split path instead of displaying the path elements.

```yaml
Type: SwitchParameter
Parameter Sets: (All)
Aliases: 

Required: False
Position: Named
Default value: False
Accept pipeline input: False
Accept wildcard characters: False
```

### -UseTransaction
Includes the command in the active transaction.
This parameter can only be used when a transaction is in progress.
For more information, see about_Transactions.

```yaml
Type: SwitchParameter
Parameter Sets: (All)
Aliases: usetx

Required: False
Position: Named
Default value: None
Accept pipeline input: False
Accept wildcard characters: False
```

### CommonParameters
This cmdlet supports the common parameters: -Debug, -ErrorAction, -ErrorVariable, -InformationAction, -InformationVariable, -OutVariable, -OutBuffer, -PipelineVariable, -Verbose, -WarningAction, and -WarningVariable. For more information, see about_CommonParameters (http://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?LinkID=113216).
## INPUTS

### System.String
You can pipe a string that contains a path to Split-Path.
## OUTPUTS

### System.String, System.Boolean
The **Split-Path** cmdlet returns text strings.
When you use the **Resolve** parameter, Split-Path returns a string that describes the location of the items; it does not return objects that represent the items, such as a FileInfo or RegistryKey object.

When you use the **IsAbsolute** parameter, **Split-Path** returns a Boolean value.
## NOTES
* The split location parameters (Qualifier, Parent, Leaf, and NoQualifier) are exclusive. You can use only one in each command.

  The cmdlets that contain the Path noun (the Path cmdlets) manipulate path names and return the names in a concise format that all Windows PowerShell providers can interpret.
They are designed for use in programs and scripts where you want to display all or part of a path name in a particular format.
Use them like you would use Dirname, Normpath, Realpath, Join, or other path manipulators.

  You can use the Path cmdlets with several providers, including the FileSystem, Registry, and Certificate providers.

  The Split-Path cmdlet is designed to work with the data exposed by any provider.
To list the providers available in your session, type "Get-PSProvider".
For more information, see about_Providers.

*
## RELATED LINKS

[Convert-Path](Convert-Path.md)

[Join-Path](Join-Path.md)

[Resolve-Path](Resolve-Path.md)

[Test-Path](Test-Path.md)

[about_Providers](../Microsoft.PowerShell.Core/About/about_Providers.md)

