---title: example template of a feature or scenario writeupcontributor:  KeithB--->Note: provide a proposed descriptive title and a brief description## PowerShellGet Enhancements ##The cmdlets in the PowerShellGet module have been updated considerably in WMF 5.1. The following new scenarios are now supported:- **Proxy Support:** Using the PowerShellGet cmdlets with an internal proxy is now supported, with the addition of the Proxy and ProxyCredential parameters to all of the Find-, Install-, Save-, and Publish- cmdlets in the PowerShellGet module (eg: Find-Module, Install-Module, Save-Module, Publish-Module). - **Enforcing Catalog Signing:** All PowerShellGet cmdlets now check for and enforce updating of signed modules. Modules signed using the new Catalog cmdlets will be checked by the PowerShellGet cmdlets to ensure that the module has not been modified in transit, and that updates to the module may only come from the original publisher. This affects Install-Module, and Update-Module cmdlets. - **Sharing and Acquiring Role Capabilities:** Role Capabilities are the endpoint definitions used to configure Just Enough Administration to constrain, and will be shared via the PowerShell Gallery in PowerShell Modules. Cmdlets include Find-RoleCapability, and New-PSRoleCapabilityFile. - **Find Command:** Find-Command allows users to locate a module in the PowerShell Gallery that contains a command they are looking for. - **Authenticated repositories:** Visual Studio Package Management feed requires authentication, something that is now supported via the PowerShellGet cmdlets.User feedback identified additional areas for improvement that have been addressed in 5.1, including:- **Install-Script changes:** The location used by Install-script is not added to the user path automatically in 5.1. This change was made in the standalone version of PowerShellGet, and is now in WMF 5.1.- **Adding metadata fields to existing scripts:** Update-ScriptFileInfo can be used on existing scripts to add the default metadata fields needed to publish to the PowerShellGallery. Previously users needed to manually merge this into an existing script.- **Publishing a lower-versioned module to the Gallery:** It is now possible to publish a module with a lower version number than the current previous highest version to the Gallery using Publish-Module. If a publisher  released version 2.0.0 of their module with breaking changes from the 1.x versions, they could not easily release a fix to version 1.5.0. Now, they can publish a 1.5.1, which will improve support for maintaining modules in the PowerShell Gallery. - **Checking for command over-write when installing scripts and modules:** Install-Module and Install-Script will now check to see if they contain commands that are already present on the system, and will by default error out if that happens. - **Bootstrapping Nuget in Publish- cmdlets:** Previously there was no way to automatically install the Nuget provider when using Publish-Module or Publish-Script, which made certain automation tasks very difficult. Users may now add -Force to Publish- commands to bypass the prompt. >Note: additional detail covering new concepts, implementation, examples, etc should be linked to the canonical technical documentation**Learn more about using PowerShellGet**- [About-CatalogSigning]()- []()- [Filter Get-Module results by CompatiblePSEditions]()- [Prevent script execution unless run on a comaptible edition of PowerShell]()